Recent papers for Alexander Bronstein:

2023: Vector Quantile Regression on Manifolds
Abstract: Quantile regression (QR) is a statistical tool for distribution-free estimation of conditional quantiles of a target variable given explanatory features. QR is limited by the assumption that the target distribution is univariate and defined on an Euclidean domain. Although the notion of quantiles was recently extended to multi-variate distributions, QR for multi-variate distributions on manifolds remains underexplored, even though many important applications inherently involve data distributed on, e.g., spheres (climate and geological phenomena), and tori (dihedral angles in proteins). By leveraging optimal transport theory and c-concave functions, we meaningfully define conditional vector quantile functions of high-dimensional variables on manifolds (M-CVQFs). Our approach allows for quantile estimation, regression, and computation of conditional confidence sets and likelihoods. We demonstrate the approach's efficacy and provide insights regarding the meaning of non-Euclidean quantiles through synthetic and real data experiments.

2023: Multi PILOT: Learned Feasible Multiple Acquisition Trajectories for Dynamic MRI
Abstract: Dynamic Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is known to be a powerful and reliable technique for the dynamic imaging of internal organs and tissues, making it a leading diagnostic tool. A major difficulty in using MRI in this setting is the relatively long acquisition time (and, hence, increased cost) required for imaging in high spatio-temporal resolution, leading to the appearance of related motion artifacts and decrease in resolution. Compressed Sensing (CS) techniques have become a common tool to reduce MRI acquisition time by subsampling images in the k-space according to some acquisition trajectory. Several studies have particularly focused on applying deep learning techniques to learn these acquisition trajectories in order to attain better image reconstruction, rather than using some predefined set of trajectories. To the best of our knowledge, learning acquisition trajectories has been only explored in the context of static MRI. In this study, we consider acquisition trajectory learning in the dynamic imaging setting. We design an end-to-end pipeline for the joint optimization of multiple per-frame acquisition trajectories along with a reconstruction neural network, and demonstrate improved image reconstruction quality in shorter acquisition times. The code for reproducing all experiments is accessible at https://github.com/tamirshor7/MultiPILOT.

2023: Designing Nonlinear Photonic Crystals for High-Dimensional Quantum State Engineering
Abstract: We propose a novel, physically-constrained and differentiable approach for the generation of D-dimensional qudit states via spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in quantum optics. We circumvent any limitations imposed by the inherently stochastic nature of the physical process and incorporate a set of stochastic dynamical equations governing its evolution under the SPDC Hamiltonian. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model through the design of structured nonlinear photonic crystals (NLPCs) and shaped pump beams; and show, theoretically and experimentally, how to generate maximally entangled states in the spatial degree of freedom. The learning of NLPC structures offers a promising new avenue for shaping and controlling arbitrary quantum states and enables all-optical coherent control of the generated states. We believe that this approach can readily be extended from bulky crystals to thin Metasurfaces and potentially applied to other quantum systems sharing a similar Hamiltonian structures, such as superfluids and superconductors.

2022: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Scheduling and Power Allocation in a 5G Urban Mesh
Abstract: —We study the problem of routing and scheduling of real-time ﬂows over a multi-hop millimeter wave (mmWave) mesh. We develop a model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm that determines which subset of the mmWave links should be activated during each time slot and using what power level. The proposed algorithm, called Adaptive Activator RL (AARL), can handle a variety of network topologies, network loads, and interference models, as well as adapt to different workloads. We demonstrate the operation of AARL on several topologies: a small topology with 10 links, a moderately-sized mesh with 48 links, and a large topology with 96 links. For each topology, the results of AARL are compared to those of a greedy scheduling algorithm. AARL is shown to outperform the greedy algorithm in two aspects. First, its schedule obtains higher goodput. Second, and even more importantly, while the run time of the greedy algorithm renders it impractical for real-time scheduling, the run time of AARL is suitable for meeting the time constraints of typical 5G networks.

2022: Deep fused two-step cross-modal hashing with multiple semantic supervision
Abstract: None

2022: Using Deep Reinforcement Learning for mmWave Real-Time Scheduling
Abstract: We study the problem of real-time scheduling in a multi-hop millimeter-wave (mmWave) mesh. We develop a model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm called Adaptive Activator RL (AARL), which determines the subset of mmWave links that should be activated during each time slot and the power level for each link. The most important property of AARL is its ability to make scheduling decisions within the strict time frame constraints of typical 5G mmWave networks. AARL can handle a variety of network topologies, network loads, and interference models, it can also adapt to different workloads. We demonstrate the operation of AARL on several topologies: a small topology with 10 links, a moderately-sized mesh with 48 links, and a large topology with 96 links. We show that for each topology, we compare the throughput obtained by AARL to that of a benchmark algorithm called RPMA (Residual Profit Maximizer Algorithm). The most important advantage of AARL compared to RPMA is that it is much faster and can make the necessary scheduling decisions very rapidly during every time slot, while RPMA cannot. In addition, the quality of the scheduling decisions made by AARL outperforms those made by RPMA.

2022: Adversarial robustness via noise injection in smoothed models
Abstract: None

2022: Towards Predicting Fine Finger Motions from Ultrasound Images via Kinematic Representation
Abstract: A central challenge in building robotic prostheses is the creation of a sensor-based system able to read physiological signals from the lower limb and instruct a robotic hand to perform various tasks. Existing systems typically perform discrete gestures such as pointing or grasping, by employing electromyography (EMG) or ultrasound (US) technologies to analyze muscle states. While estimating finger gestures has been done in the past by detecting prominent gestures, we are interested in detection, or inference, done in the context of fine motions that evolve over time. Examples include motions occurring when performing fine and dexterous tasks such as keyboard typing or piano playing. We consider this task as an important step towards higher adoption rates of robotic prostheses among arm amputees, as it has the potential to dramatically increase functionality in performing daily tasks. To this end, we present an end-to-end robotic system, which can successfully infer fine finger motions. This is achieved by modeling the hand as a robotic manipulator and using it as an intermediate representation to encode muscles' dynamics from a sequence of US images. We evaluated our method by collecting data from a group of subjects and demonstrating how it can be used to replay music played or text typed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating these downstream tasks within an end-to-end system.

2022: Transformer Vs. MLP-Mixer Exponential Expressive Gap For NLP Problems
Abstract: Vision-Transformers are widely used in various vision tasks. Meanwhile, there is another line of works starting with the MLP-mixer trying to achieve similar performance using mlp-based architectures. Interestingly, until now those mlp-based architectures have not been adapted for NLP tasks. Additionally, until now, mlp-based architectures have failed to achieve state-of-the-art performance in vision tasks. In this paper, we analyze the expressive power of mlp-based architectures in modeling dependencies between multiple different inputs simultaneously, and show an exponential gap between the attention and the mlp-based mechanisms. Our results suggest a theoretical explanation for the mlp inability to compete with attention-based mechanisms in NLP problems, they also suggest that the performance gap in vision tasks may be due to the mlp relative weakness in modeling dependencies between multiple different locations, and that combining smart input permutations with mlp architectures may not be enough to close the performance gap alone.

2022: Physical Passive Patch Adversarial Attacks on Visual Odometry Systems
Abstract: Deep neural networks are known to be susceptible to adversarial perturbations -- small perturbations that alter the output of the network and exist under strict norm limitations. While such perturbations are usually discussed as tailored to a specific input, a universal perturbation can be constructed to alter the model's output on a set of inputs. Universal perturbations present a more realistic case of adversarial attacks, as awareness of the model's exact input is not required. In addition, the universal attack setting raises the subject of generalization to unseen data, where given a set of inputs, the universal perturbations aim to alter the model's output on out-of-sample data. In this work, we study physical passive patch adversarial attacks on visual odometry-based autonomous navigation systems. A visual odometry system aims to infer the relative camera motion between two corresponding viewpoints, and is frequently used by vision-based autonomous navigation systems to estimate their state. For such navigation systems, a patch adversarial perturbation poses a severe security issue, as it can be used to mislead a system onto some collision course. To the best of our knowledge, we show for the first time that the error margin of a visual odometry model can be significantly increased by deploying patch adversarial attacks in the scene. We provide evaluation on synthetic closed-loop drone navigation data and demonstrate that a comparable vulnerability exists in real data. A reference implementation of the proposed method and the reported experiments is provided at https://github.com/patchadversarialattacks/patchadversarialattacks.

2022: Random Search Hyper-Parameter Tuning: Expected Improvement Estimation and the Corresponding Lower Bound
Abstract: Hyperparameter tuning is a common technique for improving the performance of neural networks. Most techniques for hyperparameter search involve an iterated process where the model is retrained at every iteration. However, the expected accuracy improvement from every additional search iteration, is still unknown. Calculating the expected improvement can help create stopping rules for hyperparameter tuning and allow for a wiser allocation of a project's computational budget. In this paper, we establish an empirical estimate for the expected accuracy improvement from an additional iteration of hyperparameter search. Our results hold for any hyperparameter tuning method which is based on random search \cite{bergstra2012random} and samples hyperparameters from a fixed distribution. We bound our estimate with an error of $O\left(\sqrt{\frac{\log k}{k}}\right)$ w.h.p. where $k$ is the current number of iterations. To the best of our knowledge this is the first bound on the expected gain from an additional iteration of hyperparameter search. Finally, we demonstrate that the optimal estimate for the expected accuracy will still have an error of $\frac{1}{k}$.

2022: Deep Isometric Maps
Abstract: None

2022: Fast Nonlinear Vector Quantile Regression
Abstract: Quantile regression (QR) is a powerful tool for estimating one or more conditional quantiles of a target variable $\mathrm{Y}$ given explanatory features $\boldsymbol{\mathrm{X}}$. A limitation of QR is that it is only defined for scalar target variables, due to the formulation of its objective function, and since the notion of quantiles has no standard definition for multivariate distributions. Recently, vector quantile regression (VQR) was proposed as an extension of QR for vector-valued target variables, thanks to a meaningful generalization of the notion of quantiles to multivariate distributions via optimal transport. Despite its elegance, VQR is arguably not applicable in practice due to several limitations: (i) it assumes a linear model for the quantiles of the target $\boldsymbol{\mathrm{Y}}$ given the features $\boldsymbol{\mathrm{X}}$; (ii) its exact formulation is intractable even for modestly-sized problems in terms of target dimensions, number of regressed quantile levels, or number of features, and its relaxed dual formulation may violate the monotonicity of the estimated quantiles; (iii) no fast or scalable solvers for VQR currently exist. In this work we fully address these limitations, namely: (i) We extend VQR to the non-linear case, showing substantial improvement over linear VQR; (ii) We propose {vector monotone rearrangement}, a method which ensures the quantile functions estimated by VQR are monotone functions; (iii) We provide fast, GPU-accelerated solvers for linear and nonlinear VQR which maintain a fixed memory footprint, and demonstrate that they scale to millions of samples and thousands of quantile levels; (iv) We release an optimized python package of our solvers as to widespread the use of VQR in real-world applications.

2021: Delta-GAN-Encoder: Encoding Semantic Changes for Explicit Image Editing, using Few Synthetic Samples
Abstract: Understating and controlling generative models' latent space is a complex task. In this paper, we propose a novel method for learning to control any desired attribute in a pre-trained GAN's latent space, for the purpose of editing synthesized and real-world data samples accordingly. We perform Sim2Real learning, relying on minimal samples to achieve an unlimited amount of continuous precise edits. We present an Autoencoder-based model that learns to encode the semantics of changes between images as a basis for editing new samples later on, achieving precise desired results - example shown in Fig. 1. While previous editing methods rely on a known structure of latent spaces (e.g., linearity of some semantics in StyleGAN), our method inherently does not require any structural constraints. We demonstrate our method in the domain of facial imagery: editing different expressions, poses, and lighting attributes, achieving state-of-the-art results.

2021: Joint Optimization of System Design and Reconstruction in MIMO Radar Imaging
Abstract: Multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) radar is one of the leading depth sensing modalities. However, the usage of multiple receive channels lead to relative high costs and prevent the penetration of MIMOs in many areas such as the automotive industry. Over the last years, few studies concentrated on designing reduced measurement schemes and image reconstruction schemes for MIMO radars, however these problems have been so far addressed separately. On the other hand, recent works in optical computational imaging have demonstrated growing success of simultaneous learning-based design of the acquisition and reconstruction schemes, manifesting significant improvement in the reconstruction quality. Inspired by these successes, in this work, we propose to learn MIMO acquisition parameters in the form of receive (Rx) antenna elements locations jointly with an image neural-network based reconstruction. To this end, we propose an algorithm for training the combined acquisition-reconstruction pipeline end-to-end in a differentiable way. We demonstrate the significance of using our learned acquisition parameters with and without the neural-network reconstruction. Code and datasets will be released upon publication.

2021: Self-Supervised Classification Network
Abstract: None

2021: GRASP: Graph Alignment through Spectral Signatures
Abstract: None

2021: Detector-Free Weakly Supervised Grounding by Separation
Abstract: Nowadays, there is an abundance of data involving images and surrounding free-form text weakly corresponding to those images. Weakly Supervised phrase-Grounding (WSG) deals with the task of using this data to learn to localize (or to ground) arbitrary text phrases in images without any additional annotations. However, most recent SotA methods for WSG assume an existence of a pre-trained object detector, relying on it to produce the ROIs for localization. In this work, we focus on the task of Detector-Free WSG (DF-WSG) to solve WSG without relying on a pre-trained detector. The key idea behind our proposed Grounding by Separation (GbS) method is synthesizing ‘text to image-regions’ associations by random alpha-blending of arbitrary image pairs and using the corresponding texts of the pair as conditions to recover the alpha map from the blended image via a segmentation network. At test time, this allows using the query phrase as a condition for a non-blended query image, thus interpreting the test image as a composition of a region corresponding to the phrase and the complement region. Our GbS shows an 8.5% accuracy improvement over previous DF-WSG SotA, for a range of benchmarks including Flickr30K, Visual Genome, and ReferIt, as well as a complementary improvement (above 7%) over the detector-based approaches for WSG.

2021: SPDCinv: Inverse Quantum-Optical Design of High-Dimensional Qudits
Abstract: Spontaneous parametric down-conversion in quantum optics is an invaluable resource for the realization of high-dimensional qudits with spatial modes of light. One of the main open challenges is how to directly generate a desirable qudit state in the SPDC process. This problem can be addressed through advanced computational learning methods; however, due to difficulties in modeling the SPDC process by a fully differentiable algorithm that takes into account all interaction effects, progress has been limited. Here, we overcome these limitations and introduce a physically-constrained and differentiable model, validated against experimental results for shaped pump beams and structured crystals, capable of learning every interaction parameter in the process. We avoid any restrictions induced by the stochastic nature of our physical model and integrate the dynamic equations governing the evolution under the SPDC Hamiltonian. We solve the inverse problem of designing a nonlinear quantum optical system that achieves the desired quantum state of down-converted photon pairs. The desired states are defined using either the second-order correlations between different spatial modes or by specifying the required density matrix. By learning nonlinear volume holograms as well as different pump shapes, we successfully show how to generate maximally entangled states. Furthermore, we simulate all-optical coherent control over the generated quantum state by actively changing the profile of the pump beam. Our work can be useful for applications such as novel designs of high-dimensional quantum key distribution and quantum information processing protocols. In addition, our method can be readily applied for controlling other degrees of freedom of light in the SPDC process, such as the spectral and temporal properties, and may even be used in condensed-matter systems having a similar interaction Hamiltonian.

2021: Intra-class low-rank regularization for supervised and semi-supervised cross-modal retrieval
Abstract: None

