Recent papers for Alfred Bruckstein:

2024: Metric Convolutions: A Unifying Theory to Adaptive Convolutions
Abstract: Standard convolutions are prevalent in image processing and deep learning, but their fixed kernel design limits adaptability. Several deformation strategies of the reference kernel grid have been proposed. Yet, they lack a unified theoretical framework. By returning to a metric perspective for images, now seen as two-dimensional manifolds equipped with notions of local and geodesic distances, either symmetric (Riemannian metrics) or not (Finsler metrics), we provide a unifying principle: the kernel positions are samples of unit balls of implicit metrics. With this new perspective, we also propose metric convolutions, a novel approach that samples unit balls from explicit signal-dependent metrics, providing interpretable operators with geometric regularisation. This framework, compatible with gradient-based optimisation, can directly replace existing convolutions applied to either input images or deep features of neural networks. Metric convolutions typically require fewer parameters and provide better generalisation. Our approach shows competitive performance in standard denoising and classification tasks.

2024: Time, Travel, and Energy in the Uniform Dispersion Problem
Abstract: We investigate the algorithmic problem of uniformly dispersing a swarm of robots in an unknown, gridlike environment. In this setting, our goal is to comprehensively study the relationships between performance metrics and robot capabilities. We introduce a formal model comparing dispersion algorithms based on makespan, traveled distance, energy consumption, sensing, communication, and memory. Using this framework, we classify several uniform dispersion algorithms according to their capability requirements and performance. We prove that while makespan and travel can be minimized in all environments, energy cannot, as long as the swarm's sensing range is bounded. In contrast, we show that energy can be minimized even by simple, ``ant-like"robots in synchronous settings and asymptotically minimized in asynchronous settings, provided the environment is topologically simply connected. Our findings offer insights into fundamental limitations that arise when designing swarm robotics systems for exploring unknown environments, highlighting the impact of environment's topology on the feasibility of energy-efficient dispersion.

2024: Distributed and Decentralized Control and Task Allocation for Flexible Swarms
Abstract: This paper introduces a novel bio-mimetic approach for distributed control of robotic swarms, inspired by the collective behaviors of swarms in nature such as schools of fish and flocks of birds. The agents are assumed to have limited sensory perception, lack memory, be Identical, anonymous, and operate without interagent explicit communication. Despite these limitations, we demonstrate that collaborative exploration and task allocation can be executed by applying simple local rules of interactions between the agents. A comprehensive model comprised of agent, formation, and swarm layers is proposed in this paper, where each layer performs a specific function in shaping the swarm's collective behavior, thereby contributing to the emergence of the anticipated behaviors. We consider four principles combined in the design of the distributed control process: Cohesiveness, Flexibility, Attraction-Repulsion, and Peristaltic Motion. We design the control algorithms as reactive behaviour that enables the swarm to maintain connectivity, adapt to dynamic environments, spread out and cover a region with a size determined by the number of agents, and respond to various local task requirements. We explore some simple broadcast control-based steering methods, that result in inducing"anonymous ad-hoc leaders"among the agents, capable of guiding the swarm towards yet unexplored regions with further tasks. Our analysis is complemented by simulations, validating the efficacy of our algorithms. The experiments with various scenarios showcase the swarm`s capability to self-organize and perform tasks effectively under the proposed framework. The possible implementations include domains that necessitate emergent coordination and control in multi-agent systems, without the need for advanced individual abilities or direct communication.

2023: From Compass and Ruler to Convolution and Nonlinearity: On the Surprising Difficulty of Understanding a Simple CNN Solving a Simple Geometric Estimation Task
Abstract: Neural networks are omnipresent, but remain poorly understood. Their increasing complexity and use in critical systems raises the important challenge to full interpretability. We propose to address a simple well-posed learning problem: estimating the radius of a centred pulse in a one-dimensional signal or of a centred disk in two-dimensional images using a simple convolutional neural network. Surprisingly, understanding what trained networks have learned is difficult and, to some extent, counter-intuitive. However, an in-depth theoretical analysis in the one-dimensional case allows us to comprehend constraints due to the chosen architecture, the role of each filter and of the nonlinear activation function, and every single value taken by the weights of the model. Two fundamental concepts of neural networks arise: the importance of invariance and of the shape of the nonlinear activation functions.

2023: Exploration of unknown indoor regions by a swarm of energy-constrained drones
Abstract: Several distributed algorithms are presented for the exploration of unknown indoor regions by a swarm of flying, energy constrained agents. The agents, which are identical, autonomous, anonymous and oblivious, uniformly cover the region and thus explore it using predefined action rules based on locally sensed information and the energy level of the agents. While flying drones have many advantages in search and rescue scenarios, their main drawback is a high power consumption during flight combined with limited, on-board energy. Furthermore, in these scenarios agent size is severely limited and consequently so are the total weight and capabilities of the agents. The region is modeled as a connected sub-set of a regular grid composed of square cells that the agents enter, over time, via entry points. Some of the agents may settle in unoccupied cells as the exploration progresses. Settled agents conserve energy and become virtual pheromones for the exploration and coverage process, beacons that subsequently aid the remaining, and still exploring, mobile agents. The termination of the coverage process is based on a backward propagating information diffusion scheme. Various algorithmical alternatives are discussed and upper bounds derived and compared to experimental results. Finally, an optimal entry rate that minimizes the total energy consumption is derived for the case of a linear regions.

2023: Pincer Movements are Always Better Than Same-Direction Search
Abstract: Given a planar circular region, containing an unknown number of smart mobile evaders, our aim is to detect all of them, or at least to confine them by sweeping the region's boundary, using a team of sweeping agents. We assume all sweepers are identical and have line sensors of equal length. By deriving conditions on the speed of the sweepers and their paths, sweepers can ensure the successful completion of the confinement task implying that evaders with a known limit on their speed cannot escape the initial domain. The critical speed is the minimal speed ensuring sweepers confine all evaders to their original domain. If sweepers move at higher speeds, they can succeed in the complete detection task as well. The prevailing idea in multi-agent based search protocols is to distribute sweepers equally across the domain of interest in order to divide the search effort among cooperating sweepers and thereby obtain better performance as the number of sweepers increases. Previous works suggested confinement and complete detection search protocols for groups of agents based on distributing searchers uniformly around the region and having them move in the same (clockwise or counterclockwise) direction. Recent work suggested pincer strategies for the same purpose. However, no sufficient quantitative comparison was done to prove pincer-based strategies are always better in terms of performance metrics such as minimal sweeper speed for confinement, and time of complete detection, for both of which a lower value is better. In this paper we provide a complete analysis of this problem yielding exact results proving pincer-based strategies are always better in all aspects when an even number of sweepers are working together. We do this for the case of sweepers having linear detectors, but we believe similar results can be obtained in general, for any number of sweepers, more general sensor geometries and different environments.

2023: A model is worth tens of thousands of examples
Abstract: Traditional signal processing methods relying on mathematical data generation models have been cast aside in favour of deep neural networks, which require vast amounts of data. Since the theoretical sample complexity is nearly impossible to evaluate, these amounts of examples are usually estimated with crude rules of thumb. However, these rules only suggest when the networks should work, but do not relate to the traditional methods. In particular, an interesting question is: how much data is required for neural networks to be on par or outperform, if possible, the traditional model-based methods? In this work, we empirically investigate this question in two simple examples, where the data is generated according to precisely defined mathematical models, and where well-understood optimal or state-of-the-art mathematical data-agnostic solutions are known. A first problem is deconvolving one-dimensional Gaussian signals and a second one is estimating a circle's radius and location in random grayscale images of disks. By training various networks, either naive custom designed or well-established ones, with various amounts of training data, we find that networks require tens of thousands of examples in comparison to the traditional methods, whether the networks are trained from scratch or even with transfer-learning or finetuning.

2023: On the role and opportunities in teamwork design for advanced multi-robot search systems
Abstract: Intelligent robotic systems are becoming ever more present in our lives across a multitude of domains such as industry, transportation, agriculture, security, healthcare and even education. Such systems enable humans to focus on the interesting and sophisticated tasks while robots accomplish tasks that are either too tedious, routine or potentially dangerous for humans to do. Recent advances in perception technologies and accompanying hardware, mainly attributed to rapid advancements in the deep-learning ecosystem, enable the deployment of robotic systems equipped with onboard sensors as well as the computational power to perform autonomous reasoning and decision making online. While there has been significant progress in expanding the capabilities of single and multi-robot systems during the last decades across a multitude of domains and applications, there are still many promising areas for research that can advance the state of cooperative searching systems that employ multiple robots. In this article, several prospective avenues of research in teamwork cooperation with considerable potential for advancement of multi-robot search systems will be visited and discussed. In previous works we have shown that multi-agent search tasks can greatly benefit from intelligent cooperation between team members and can achieve performance close to the theoretical optimum. The techniques applied can be used in a variety of domains including planning against adversarial opponents, control of forest fires and coordinating search-and-rescue missions. The state-of-the-art on methods of multi-robot search across several selected domains of application is explained, highlighting the pros and cons of each method, providing an up-to-date view on the current state of the domains and their future challenges.

2023: Patrolling Grids with a Bit of Memory
Abstract: This work addresses the challenge of patrolling regular grid graphs of any dimension using a single mobile agent with minimal memory and limited sensing range. We show that it is impossible to patrol some grid graphs with $0$ bits of memory, regardless of sensing range, and give an exact characterization of those grid graphs that can be patrolled with $0$ bits of memory and sensing range $V$. On the other hand, we show that an algorithm exists using $1$ bit of memory and $V=1$ that patrols any $d$-dimensional grid graph. This result is surprising given that the agent must be able to move in $2d$ distinct directions to patrol, while $1$ bit of memory allows specifying only two directions per sensory input. Our $1$-bit patrolling algorithm handles this by carefully exploiting a small state-space to access all the needed directions while avoiding getting stuck. Overall, our results give concrete evidence that extremely little memory is needed for patrolling highly regular environments like grid graphs compared to arbitrary graphs. The techniques we use, such as partitioning the environment into sensing regions and exploiting distinct coordinates resulting from higher-dimensionality, may be applicable to analyzing the space complexity of patrolling in other types of regular environments as well.

2023: Guaranteed Evader Detection in Multi-Agent Search Tasks using Pincer Trajectories
Abstract: Assume that inside an initial planar area there are smart mobile evaders attempting to avoid detection by a team of sweeping searching agents. All sweepers detect evaders with fan-shaped sensors, modeling the field of view of real cameras. Detection of all evaders is guaranteed with cooperative sweeping strategies, by setting requirements on sweepers' speed, and by carefully designing their trajectories. Assume the smart evaders have an upper limit on their speed which is a-priori known to the sweeping team. An easier task for the team of sweepers is to confine evaders to the domain in which they are initially located. The sweepers accomplish the confinement task if they move sufficiently fast and detect evaders by applying an appropriate search strategy. Any given search strategy results in a minimal sweeper's speed in order to be able to detect all evaders. The minimal speed guarantees the ability of the sweeping team to confine evaders to their original domain, and if the sweepers move faster they are able to detect all evaders that are present in the region. We present results on the total search time for a novel pincer-movement based search protocol that utilizes complementary trajectories along with adaptive sensor geometries for any even number of pursuers.

2023: Optimally reordering mobile agents on parallel rows
Abstract: None

2023: Spiral Sweeping Protocols for Detection of Smart Evaders
Abstract: None

2023: Stigmergy-based, Dual-Layer Coverage of Unknown Regions
Abstract: We present algorithms for uniformly covering an unknown indoor region with a swarm of simple, anonymous and autonomous mobile agents. The exploration of such regions is made difficult by the lack of a common global reference frame, severe degradation of radio-frequency communication, and ground obstacles. We propose addressing these challenges by using airborne agents, such as Micro Air Vehicles, in dual capacity, both as mobile explorers and, once they land, as beacons that help other agents navigate the region. The algorithms we propose are designed for a swarm of identical ant-like agents with local sensing capabilities. The agents enter the region, which is represented as a graph, over time from one or more entry points and are required to occupy all of its vertices. Unlike many works in this area, we consider the task of informing an outside operator with limited information that the coverage mission is complete. Even with this additional requirement we show, both through simulations and mathematical proofs, that the dual role concept results in linear-time termination, while also improving many well-known algorithms in the literature in terms of energy use.

2023: Spiral Sweeping Search for Smart Evaders
Abstract: Consider a given planar circular region, in which there is an unknown number of smart mobile evaders. We wish to detect evaders using a line formation of sweeping agents whose total sensing length is predetermined. We propose procedures for designing spiral sweeping protocols that ensure the successful completion of the task, thus deriving conditions on the sweeping speed of the linear formation and its path. Successful completion of the task implies that evaders with a given limit on their speed cannot escape the sweeping agents. A simpler task for the sweeping formation is the confinement of evaders to a desired region, such as their original domain. The feasibility of completing these tasks depends on geometric and dynamic constraints that impose a lower bound on the speed that the sweeping agents must have. This critical speed is derived to ensure the satisfaction of the confinement task. Increasing the speed above the lower bound enables the sweepers to complete the search task as well. We develop two spiral line formation search processes for smart evaders, that address current limitations in search against smart evaders. Additionally, we present a quantitative and qualitative comparison analysis between the total search time of circular line formation sweep processes and spiral line formation processes. We evaluate the different strategies by using two metrics, total search time and the minimal critical speed required for a successful search.

2022: Exploration and Coverage with Swarms of Settling Agents
Abstract: We consider several algorithms for exploring and filling an unknown, connected region, by simple, airborne agents. The agents are assumed to be identical, autonomous, anonymous and to have a finite amount of memory. The region is modeled as a connected sub-set of a regular grid composed of square cells. The algorithms described herein are suited for Micro Air Vehicles (MAV) since these air vehicles enable unobstructed views of the ground below and can move freely in space at various heights. The agents explore the region by applying various action-rules based on locally acquired information Some of them may settle in unoccupied cells as the exploration progresses. Settled agents become “virtual pheromones” for the exploration and coverage process, beacons that subsequently aid the remaining, and still exploring, mobile agents. We introduce a backward propagating information diffusion process as a way to implement a deterministic indicator of process termination and guide the mobile agents.

2022: On Tracking and Capture in Proportional-Control Bearing-Only Unicycle Pursuit
Abstract: An agent with constant speed unicycle kinematics senses only the bearing towards a target and pursues it, guided by a steering control law proportional to the bearing-angle to the target. The target’s speed is equal to that of the chasing agent while it moves at a constant velocity. This letter presents a comprehensive analysis of this unicycle pursuit problem and shows that with enough gain in the control law, the agent eventually either captures the target or follows its path while maintaining a finite distance from it, regardless of the initial conditions.

2022: Emerging cooperation on the road by myopic local interactions
Abstract: We study a combinatorial problem inspired by the following scenario: fully autonomous vehicles drive on a multi-lane (m ≥ 2) road. Each vehicle heads to its own destination and is allowed to exit the road only through a single designated off-ramp lane. However, an individual vehicle has a severely limited memory and sensing capabilities, and, moreover, does not communicate with its peers. In this work we present a distributed algorithm that, nonetheless, allows vehicles to get to the desired lane without collisions and in timely manner.

2022: A Locust-Inspired Model of Collective Marching on Rings
Abstract: We study the collective motion of autonomous mobile agents in a ringlike environment. The agents’ dynamics are inspired by known laboratory experiments on the dynamics of locust swarms. In these experiments, locusts placed at arbitrary locations and initial orientations on a ring-shaped arena are observed to eventually all march in the same direction. In this work we ask whether, and how fast, a similar phenomenon occurs in a stochastic swarm of simple locust-inspired agents. The agents are randomly initiated as marching either clockwise or counterclockwise on a discretized, wide ring-shaped region, which we subdivide into k concentric tracks of length n. Collisions cause agents to change their direction of motion. To avoid this, agents may decide to switch tracks to merge with platoons of agents marching in their direction. We prove that such agents must eventually converge to a local consensus about their direction of motion, meaning that all agents on each narrow track must eventually march in the same direction. We give asymptotic bounds for the expected time it takes for such convergence or “stabilization” to occur, which depends on the number of agents, the length of the tracks, and the number of tracks. We show that when agents also have a small probability of “erratic”, random track-jumping behavior, a global consensus on the direction of motion across all tracks will eventually be reached. Finally, we verify our theoretical findings in numerical simulations.

2022: Stigmergy-based, Dual-Layer Coverage of Unknown Indoor Regions
Abstract: We present algorithms for uniformly covering an unknown indoor region with a swarm of simple, anonymous and autonomous mobile agents. The exploration of such regions is made difficult by the lack of a common global reference frame, severe degradation of radio-frequency communication, and numerous ground obstacles. We propose addressing these challenges by using airborne agents, such as Micro Air Vehicles, in dual capacity, both as mobile explorers and (once they land) as beacons that help other agents navigate the region. The algorithms we propose are designed for a swarm of simple, identical, ant-like agents with local sensing capabilities. The agents enter the region, which is discretized as a graph, over time from one or more entry points and are tasked with occupying all of its vertices. Unlike many works in this area, we consider the requirement of informing an outside operator with limited information that the coverage mission is complete. Even with this additional requirement we show, both through simulations and mathematical proofs, that the dual role concept results in linear-time termination, while also besting many well-known algorithms in the literature in terms of energy use.

2022: Multi-Agent Distributed and Decentralized Geometric Task Allocation
Abstract: We consider the general problem of geometric task allocation, wherein a large, decentralized swarm of simple mobile agents must detect the locations of tasks in the plane and position themselves nearby. The tasks are represented by an a priori unknown demand profile Φ(x,y) that determines how many agents are needed in each location. The agents are autonomous, oblivious, indistinguishable, and have a finite sensing range. They must configure themselves according to Φ using only local information about Φ and about the positions of nearby agents. All agents act according to the same local sensing-based rule of motion, and cannot explicitly communicate nor share information. We propose an approach based on gradient descent over a simple squared error function. We formally show that this approach results in attraction-repulsion dynamics. Repulsion encourages agents to spread out and explore the region to find the tasks, and attraction causes them to accumulate at task locations. The figures in this work are snapshots of simulations that can be viewed at https://youtu.be/1_5f0MnUJag.

