Recent papers for Anat Rafaeli:

2024: Organizational Consequences of Misperceptions about Sensitive Topics
Abstract: None

2023: Decision control and explanations in human-AI collaboration: Improving user perceptions and compliance
Abstract: None

2023: Affect-as-Information: Customer and Employee Affective Displays as Expeditious Predictors of Customer Satisfaction
Abstract: This study introduces affect-as-information theory to the service encounter, integrates it with the peak and end model of affect, and thereby shows that these dynamic customer and employee affective displays can be used to estimate post-encounter customer satisfaction. A large-scale dataset of 23,645 real-life text-based (i.e., chat) service encounters with a total of 301,280 genuine messages written by customers and employees were used to test our hypotheses. Automatic sentiment analysis was deployed to assess the affective displays of customers and employees in every individual text message as a service encounter unfolded. Our findings confirm that in addition to customers’ overall (mean) affective display, peak (i.e., highest positive or least negative), and end (final) affective displays explain customer satisfaction. Further, as customer displays may not fully capture their satisfaction process and employees understand the service quality they deliver, we propose and confirm that employee displayed affect explains further variance in customer satisfaction. We also find that the predictive power of affective displays is more pronounced in service failure than non-failure encounters. Together, these findings show that automatic monitoring beyond customer overall affect (i.e., adding customer peak and end, and employee affective displays) can expedite the evaluation of customer satisfaction.

2022: Integrating emotional load into service operations
Abstract: None

2022: Integrating emotional load into service operations
Abstract: None

2022: When the medium massages perceptions: Personal (vs. public) displays of information reduce crowding perceptions and outsider mistreatment of frontline staff.
Abstract: Crowded waiting areas are volatile environments, where seemingly ordinary people often get frustrated and mistreat frontline staff. Given that crowding is an exogenous factor in many industries (e.g., retail, healthcare), we suggest an intervention that can "massage" outsiders' perceptions of crowding and reduce the mistreatment of frontline staff. We theorize that providing information for outsiders to read while they wait on a personal medium (e.g., a leaflet, a smartphone) reduces their crowding perceptions and mistreatment of frontline staff, compared to providing the same information on a public medium (e.g., poster, wall sign). We report two studies that confirm our theory: A field experiment in Emergency Departments (n = 939) and an online experiment simulating a coffee shop (n = 246). Theoretical and managerial implications are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

2022: Reducing Abandonment and Improving Attitudes in Emergency Departments: Integrating Delay Announcements into Operational Transparency to Signal Service Quality
Abstract: None

2022: "When the medium massages perceptions: Personal (vs. public) displays of information reduce crowding perceptions and outsider mistreatment of frontline staff": Correction.
Abstract: Reports an error in "When the medium massages perceptions: Personal (vs. public) displays of information reduce crowding perceptions and outsider mistreatment of frontline staff" by Jean-Nicolas Reyt, Dorit Efrat-Treister, Daniel Altman, Chen Shapira, Arie Eisenman and Anat Rafaeli (Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 2022[Feb], Vol 27[1], 164-178). In the original article, changes were needed to the labels under the images in the Appendix. Personal media were mistakenly labeled as public and vice versa. The four legends, from left to right, top to bottom, should be "Low crowding, public medium," "Low crowding, personal medium," "High crowding, public medium," and "High crowding, personal medium." The results and conclusions are unchanged. The online version of this article has been corrected. (The following abstract of the original article appeared in record 2022-30403-003). Crowded waiting areas are volatile environments, where seemingly ordinary people often get frustrated and mistreat frontline staff. Given that crowding is an exogenous factor in many industries (e.g., retail, healthcare), we suggest an intervention that can "massage" outsiders' perceptions of crowding and reduce the mistreatment of frontline staff. We theorize that providing information for outsiders to read while they wait on a personal medium (e.g., a leaflet, a smartphone) reduces their crowding perceptions and mistreatment of frontline staff, compared to providing the same information on a public medium (e.g., poster, wall sign). We report two studies that confirm our theory: A field experiment in Emergency Departments (n = 939) and an online experiment simulating a coffee shop (n = 246). Theoretical and managerial implications are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

2022: Adaptive Transfer Learning for Multi-Label Emotion Classiﬁcation
Abstract: In this study, we explore how data annotated 001 with different taxonomies can be used to im-002 prove multi-label emotion classiﬁcation. We 003 propose a novel transfer learning framework 004 to model the interaction between emotion cat-005 egories, and introduce an adaptive aggregation 006 mechanism to fuse the information from differ-007 ent taxonomies. The cross-taxonomy emotion 008 interaction allows the source and target tasks 009 to collaborate effectively, resulting in more ac-010 curate predictions. The experimental results 011 on the SemEval-2018 dataset show that our ap-012 proach can effectively boost the performance 013 gain brought by transfer learning, and signiﬁ-014 cantly outperforms existing methods. 015

2021: When do service employees smile? Response‐dependent emotion regulation in emotional labor
Abstract: None

2021: Workspace Integration and Sustainability: Linking the Symbolic and Social Affordances of the Workspace to Employee Wellbeing
Abstract: Our goal in this paper is to connect workspace design to employee wellbeing and social sustainability. Toward this connection, we introduce and empirically test a new concept of “workspace integration”. This concept refers to the continuum of integration of an employee’s workspace with the organizational, physical space. We further define three workspace affordances that predict the social sustainability of workspace arrangements by influencing employee wellbeing. The three affordances are perceptions of symbolism of the organization and of symbolism of the self, and opportunities for social interactions. We evaluate our theory using data collected from an online survey of British employees (n = 392) working in offices at home and/or in the organization in various industries. As predicted, workspace integration positively influences wellbeing directly as well as indirectly via mediation of symbolism of the organization and opportunities for social interactions. The third affordance—symbolism of the self—positively influences wellbeing, but is not affected by workspace integration. Our findings confirm the impact of workspace affordances on employee wellbeing, and thus their utility for the analysis of social sustainability. The findings also contribute to understanding of the differences between workspace symbolism of the organization and of the self, their impact on wellbeing, and thus their implications for social sustainability.

2020: Service Professionals and Managerial Control: Institutional, Employment, and Personal Segmentations
Abstract: Abstract For service professionals, work is a central life interest, raising questions about the effectiveness of managerial controls. We examine reactions of professionals (676 physicians) to imposed managerial controls in the form of a time clock. The main contribution of this study is its demonstration that segmenting professionals can help unravel reactions to management controls. All professionals are sensitive to external control measures that threaten their organizational status, but the institutional working context (far more than individual-level employment arrangements or demographics) determines the extent of these reactions.

2020: Opportunities, Tools, and New Insights: Evidence on Emotions in Service from Analyses of Digital Traces Data
Abstract: Originality/value: This is the first objective and detailed depiction of the actual emotional encounters that customers express, and the first to analyze in detail the nature and content of customer service work.

2020: The effect of waiting on aggressive tendencies toward emergency department staff: Providing information can help but may also backfire
Abstract: Introduction Waiting is inevitable for customers of service organizations, yet having to wait can trigger aggression by care receivers toward hospital staff. We explore the effect of waiting times on care receivers’ sense of procedural justice and aggressive tendencies, and show the attenuating effects of providing explanatory information. Methods Data were collected using survey responses in two studies, both conducted in the waiting area of a large hospital emergency department. Study 1 (n = 328) was a quasi-experiment involving an intervention in which care receivers were provided with information about wait times. Study 1 included three phases: (1) pre-test (week 1, n = 98), in which no information was provided; (2) information condition (weeks 2 & 3, n = 155), in which information was provided through large signs and pamphlets; and (3) post-test (week 4, n = 75), in which no information was provided. Study 2 (n = 99) was conducted a year later and involved the same information provision as the intervention stage of Study 1. Results The longer the wait duration, the lower care receivers’ procedural justice perceptions and the greater their aggressive tendencies. Information provision moderated the association, such that receiving information reduced aggressive tendencies during shorter waits but increased aggressive tendencies during longer waits. We show these effects in two separate data collections, conducted one year apart. Conclusion Competing theories predict that explanatory information should variously reduce and increase aggressive tendencies among people waiting in a queue. Our findings resolve this contradiction by identifying boundaries for the effectiveness of providing information in reducing aggression. We show that providing information is likely to reduce aggression until such point as the wait duration becomes longer than expected based on the information provided.

2020: Do Customer Emotions Affect Agent Speed? An Empirical Study of Emotional Load in Online Customer Contact Centers
Abstract: Problem definition: Research in operations management has focused mainly on system-level load, ignoring the fact that service agents and customers express a variety of emotions that may impact service processes and outcomes. We introduce the concept of emotional load—the emotional demands that customer behaviors impose on service agents—to analyze how customer emotions affect service worker’s behavior. Academic/practical relevance: Most theories in organizational behavior literature predict that emotions expressed by customers reduce agent’s cognitive abilities and therefore, should reduce the agent’s speed (e.g., by increasing the service time required to serve an angry customer). We aim to shed light on the magnitude of that phenomenon while addressing important econometric challenges. We also investigate an important mechanism that drives this relation, namely agent effort. We discuss practical opportunities that arise from measuring emotional load and how it can be used to enhance productivity. Methodology: We measure the emotional load of agents using sentiment analysis tools that quantify positive/negative customer emotion expressions in an online chat-type contact center and link it to agent behavior: response time (RT) and the length and number of messages required to complete a service request. Identifying a causal effect of customer emotion on agent behavior using observational data is challenging because there are confounding factors associated with the complexity of service requests, which are related to both customer emotions and agent behavior. Our identification strategy uses panel data and exploits the variation across messages within a focal request using fixed effects to control for unobserved factors associated with case complexity. Instrumental variables are also used to address issues of measurement error and other endogeneity problems; the instruments are based on exogenous shocks to agent performance indicators that have been studied in the service operations literature. Results: Analyses show that emotional load created by negative customer emotions increases agent RT, the length of the agent messages (a measure of effort), and the required number of messages needed to complete a service request. Emotional load and agent RT reciprocally affect each other, with long agent RTs and a high number of messages producing more negative customer emotion. Managerial implications: We suggest that the emotional content in customer communications should be an important factor to consider when assigning workload to agents in a service system. Our study provides a rigorous methodology to measure the emotional content from customer text messages and objectively evaluate its associated workload. We discuss how this can be used to improve staffing decisions and dynamic workload routing through real-time monitoring of emotional load.

2020: A Patient-Centered Information System (myED) for Emergency Care Journeys: Design, Development, and Initial Adoption
Abstract: Background Medical care is highly complex in that it addresses patient-centered health goals that require the coordination of multiple care providers. Emergency department (ED) patients currently lack a sense of predictability about ED procedures. This increases frustration and aggression. Herein, we describe a system for providing real-time information to ED patients regarding the procedures in their ED medical journey. Objective This study aimed to develop a system that provides patients with dynamically updated information about the specific procedures and expected waiting times in their personal ED journey, and to report initial evaluations of this system. Methods To develop the myED system, we extracted information from hospital databases and translated it using process mining and user interface design into a language that is accessible and comprehensible to patients. We evaluated the system using a mixed methods approach that combined observations, interviews, and online records. Results Interviews with patients, accompanying family members, and health care providers (HCPs) confirmed patients’ needs for information about their personal ED journey. The system developed enables patients to access this information on their personal mobile phones through a responsive website. In the third month after deployment, 492 of 1614 (30.48%) patients used myED. Patients’ understanding of their ED journey improved significantly (F8,299=2.519; P=.01), and patients showed positive reactions to the system. We identified future challenges, including achieving quick engagement without delaying medical care. Salient reasons for poor system adoption were patients’ medical state and technological illiteracy. HCPs confirmed the potential of myED and identified means that could improve patient experience and staff cooperation. Conclusions Our iterative work with ED patients, HCPs, and a multidisciplinary team of developers yielded a system that provides personal information to patients about their ED journey in a secure, effective, and user-friendly way. MyED communicates this information through mobile technology. This improves health care by addressing patients’ psychological needs for information and understanding, which are often overlooked. We continue to test and refine the system and expect to find positive effects of myED on patients’ ED experience and hospital operations.

2019: When and Why a Squeakier Wheel Gets More Grease: The Influence of Cultural Values and Anger Intensity on Customer Compensation
Abstract: When customers express anger, do they gain greater returns, as suggested by the proverb “the squeaky wheel gets the grease”? If so, does the intensity of the squeak matter? In four studies, we explore employee compensation responses to customers who express relatively high- versus low-intensity anger in service-failure settings. The studies demonstrate that the cultural value of power distance (PD) moderates the relationship between emotional intensity and customer compensation: High-PD service employees offer less compensation to customers expressing higher intensity anger, and low-PD service employees offer more to customers expressing higher intensity anger. For high-PD service employees, this relationship between emotional intensity and compensation is mediated by the perceived appropriateness of the anger expression; for low-PD employees, it is mediated by perceived threat. However, when perceptions of threat are mitigated, low-PD service employees offer higher compensation to lower intensity anger, and this effect is mediated by perceptions of appropriateness. This research is the first to examine the effect of anger intensity in service-failure settings. For managers, the findings illuminate the importance of adopting a cultural lens when designing emotion management training programs and when setting practices for compensating angry customers.

2019: Employee Reactions to Uncertainty: An Exploration of Individual, Role-Based, & Situational Factors
Abstract: None

2019: Cognitive and Emotional Load Influence Response Time of Service Agents: A Large Scale Analysis of Chat Service Conversations
Abstract: We highlight two psychological aspects of the load in service work – cognitive load (amount of information customers present) and emotional load (emotions customers present), and examine their effects on response time of service agents, in service conversations conducted using text-based chats. Using operational data of 145,995 chat service conversations, we show that cognitive load and emotional load increase agent response time both between and within service conversations. Our analyses unpack common assumptions that number of customers is identical to amount of work load, and shed light on customer-agent dynamics both between and within service conversations. In studying text-based service communication, which is rapidly expanding and insufficiently studied, we open up exciting opportunities for further research.

2019: Design, Development and Initial Adoption of myED: 
A Patient-Centered Information System for Emergency Care Journeys (Preprint)
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND
 Medical care is highly complex, addressing patient-centered health goals that require coordination of multiple care providers. We focus on Emergency Department (ED) patients, who currently lack a sense of predictability about their medical journey, which increases the occurrences of frustration and aggression. ED patients need a better understanding about their ED procedures. We suggest and describe a system for providing real-time information to ED patients regarding the procedures in their ED medical journey.
 
 
 OBJECTIVE
 The purpose of this study was to develop a system that provides patients with dynamically updated information about the specific procedures and expected wait times their personal ED journey comprises, and to report initial evaluations of this system.
 
 
 METHODS
 To develop the system myED, we extracted information from hospital databases and translated it using process mining and user interface (UI) design into a language that is accessible and comprehensible to patients. We evaluate the system using a mixed-methods approach, combining observations, interviews and online records.
 
 
 RESULTS
 Interviews with patients, escorts and Health Care Providers (HCPs) confirm patients’ need for information about their personal ED journey. Our iterative work with ED patients, HCPs, and a multidisciplinary team of developers enabled provision of such information in a secure, effective and user-friendly way.
In the third month after deployment, 492 of 1,614 patients (30.48%), used myED. Patients’ understanding of their ED journey improved significantly (F(1,348)=13.109, P=.000), and patients showed positive reactions to the system. We identified future challenges, including reaching quick engagement without delaying medical care. Salient reasons for poor system adoption were patients’ medical state and technological illiteracy. HCPs confirmed the potential of myED and identified means that could improve patient experience and staff cooperation.
 
 
 CONCLUSIONS
 myED communicates personal information to patients about their ED journey through mobile technology. Such communication improves healthcare by addressing patient psychological needs for information and understanding, which are often overlooked. We continue to test and refine the system, and expect to find positive effects of myED on patients’ ED experience and on hospital operations.


