Recent papers for Atar Rami:

2024: Diffusion limits in the quarter plane and non-semimartingale reflected Brownian motion
Abstract: We consider a continuous-time random walk in the quarter plane for which the transition intensities are constant on each of the four faces $(0,\infty)^2$, $F_1=\{0\}\times(0,\infty)$, $F_2=(0,\infty)\times\{0\}$ and $\{(0,0)\}$. We show that when rescaled diffusively it converges in law to a Brownian motion with oblique reflection direction $d^{(i)}$ on face $F_i$, $i=1,2$, defined via the Varadhan-Williams submartingale problem. A parameter denoted by $\alpha$ was introduced in \cite{vw}, measuring the extent to which $d^{(i)}$ are inclined toward the origin. In the case of the quarter plane, $\alpha$ takes values in $(-2,2)$, and it is known that the reflected Brownian motion is a semimartingale if and only if $\alpha\in(-2,1)$. Convergence results via both the Skorohod map and the invariance principle for semimartingale reflected Brownian motion are known to hold in various settings in arbitrary dimension. In the case of the quarter plane, the invariance principle was proved for $\alpha \in (-2,1)$ whereas for tools based on the Skorohod map to be applicable it is necessary (but not sufficient) that $\alpha \in [-1,1)$. Another tool that has been used to prove convergence in general dimension is the extended Skorohod map, which in the case of the quarter plane provides convergence for $\alpha=1$. This paper focuses on the range $\alpha \in (1,2)$, where the Skorohod problem and the extended Skorohod problem do not possess a unique solution, the limit process is not a semimartingale, and convergence to reflected Brownian motion has not been shown before. The result has implications on the asymptotic analysis of two Markovian queueing models: The {\it generalized processor sharing model with parallelization slowdown}, and the {\it coupled processor model}.

2022: Parallel server systems in extended heavy traffic
Abstract: None

2022: Parallel server systems under an extended heavy traffic condition: A lower bound
Abstract: The standard setting for studying parallel server systems (PSS) at the diffusion scale is based on the heavy traffic condition (HTC), which assumes that the underlying static allocation linear program (LP) is critical and has a unique solution. This solution determines the graph of basic activities, which identifies the set of activities (i.e., class-server pairs) that are operational. In this paper we explore the extended HTC, where the LP is merely assumed to be critical. Because multiple solutions are allowed, multiple sets of operational activities, referred to as modes, are available. Formally, the scaling limit for the control problem associated with the model is given by a so called workload control problem (WCP) in which a cost associated with a diffusion process is to be minimized by dynamically switching between these modes. Our main result is that the WCP's value constitutes an asymptotic lower bound on the cost associated with the PSS model.

2022: Scheduling in the High-Uncertainty Heavy Traffic Regime
Abstract: We propose a model uncertainty approach to heavy traffic asymptotics that allows for a high level of uncertainty. That is, the uncertainty classes of underlying distributions accommodate disturbances that are of order 1 at the usual diffusion scale as opposed to asymptotically vanishing disturbances studied previously in relation to heavy traffic. A main advantage of the approach is that the invariance principle underlying diffusion limits makes it possible to define uncertainty classes in terms of the first two moments only. The model we consider is a single-server queue with multiple job types. The problem is formulated as a zero sum stochastic game played between the system controller, who determines scheduling and attempts to minimize an expected linear holding cost, and an adversary, who dynamically controls the service time distributions of arriving jobs and attempts to maximize the cost. The heavy traffic asymptotics of the game are fully solved. It is shown that an asymptotically optimal policy for the system controller is to prioritize according to an index rule, and for the adversary, it is to select distributions based on the system’s current workload. The workload-to-distribution feedback mapping is determined by a Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman equation, which also characterizes the game’s limit value. Unlike in the vast majority of results in the heavy traffic theory and as a direct consequence of the diffusive size disturbances, the limiting dynamics under asymptotically optimal play are captured by a stochastic differential equation where both the drift and the diffusion coefficients may be discontinuous. Funding: R. Atar is supported by the Israeli Science Foundation [Grant 1035/20].

2022: Asymptotic Optimality of Switched Control Policies in a Simple Parallel Server System Under an Extended Heavy Traffic Condition
Abstract: This paper studies a two-class, two-server parallel server system under the recently introduced extended heavy traffic condition, which states that the underlying “static allocation” linear program (LP) is critical, but does not require that it has a unique solution. The main result is the construction of policies that asymptotically achieve previously proved a lower bound, on an expected discounted linear combination of diffusion-scaled queue lengths and are therefore asymptotically optimal (AO). Each extreme point solution to the LP determines a control mode—that is, a set of activities (class-server pairs) that are operational. When there are multiple solutions, these modes can be selected dynamically. It is shown that the number of modes required for AO is either one or two. In the latter case, there is a switching point in the (normalized) workload domain, characterized in terms of a free boundary problem. Our policies are defined by identifying pairs of elementary policies and switching between them at this switching point. They provide the first example in the heavy traffic literature where weak limits under an AO policy are given by a diffusion process where both the drift and diffusion coefficients are discontinuous. Funding: R. Atar is supported by the Israel Science Foundation [Grant 1035/20].

2021: On the Persistent-Idle Load Distribution Policy Under Batch Arrivals and Random Service Capacity
Abstract: Practical considerations of present technological uses of load-balancing policies include the capability to function under server heterogeneity and the need to reduce communication overhead associated with information about the queue states. Under such constraints, state-of-the-art loadbalancing approaches either do not cover the full stability region or provide poor performance. To address this challenge, the Persistent-Idle (PI) policy was recently introduced, where servers only update the dispatcher when they become idle, and the dispatcher always sends jobs to the last server that reported being idle. This policy was proved to achieve the stability region and to operate with low communication overhead (in a sense made precise) for Bernoulli arrivals and heterogeneous servers under the assumption that their service capacities are deterministic and constant. Aiming at a broader range of models that are relevant in applications, we consider in this paper batch arrivals and service capacities that vary over time according to stochastic processes, that may have distinct statistical characteristics across servers. Our main theoretical contribution is to show that the stability region is achieved by this policy in the case of two servers. Then, using extensive simulations, the performance is evaluated for a larger number of heterogeneous servers. PI always appears to be stable and achieves good performance while incurring a negligible communication overhead.

2021: Large-time limit of nonlinearly coupled measure-valued equations that model many-server queues with reneging
Abstract: The large-time behavior of a nonlinearly coupled pair of measure-valued transport equations with discontinuous boundary conditions, parameterized by a positive real-valued parameter λ, is considered. These equations describe the hydrodynamic or fluid limit of many-server queues with reneging (with traffic intensity λ), which model phenomena in diverse disciplines, including biology and operations research. For a broad class of reneging distributions with finite mean and service distributions with finite mean and hazard rate function that is either decreasing or bounded away from zero and infinity, it is shown that if the fluid equations have a unique invariant state, then the Dirac measure at this state is the unique random fixed point of the fluid equations, which implies that the stationary distributions of scaled N-server systems converge to the unique invariant state of the corresponding fluid equations. Moreover, when λ 6= 1, it is shown that the solution to the fluid equation starting from any initial condition converges to this unique invariant state in the large time limit. The proof techniques are different under the two sets of assumptions on the service distribution. When the hazard rate function is decreasing, a reformulation of the dynamics in terms of a certain renewal equation is used, in conjunction with recursive asymptotic estimates. When the hazard rate function is bounded away from zero and infinity, the proof uses an extended relative entropy functional as a Lyapunov function. Analogous large-time convergence results are also established for a system of coupled measure-valued equations modeling a multiclass queue.

2020: Fluid limits for earliest-deadline-first networks
Abstract: None

2020: Modeling Reactor Noise due to Rod and Thermal Vibrations with Thermal Feedback Using Stochastic Differential Equations
Abstract: Abstract Fluctuations associated with power and detector readings in a nuclear reactor, commonly known as reactor noise, are of great importance in nuclear science and engineering. Two different types of noise are described in the literature: internal noise, which is associated with the inherent stochasticity of fission chains, and external noise, which is governed by physical fluctuations of the macroscopic system. The latter may include temperature fluctuations, vibration of regulation rods, fluent turbulence, bubble formation, and more. It is generally true that in power reactors, where high temperatures and strong hydrodynamic flows are characteristic, the external noise is dominant. The goal of this paper is to propose a stochastic differential equation (SDE) that models the effect of two types of external noise terms: the inlet temperature variations, which affect the power through reactivity feedback, and rod vibrations, which affect the reactivity directly. Although these aspects were studied in the past, they were only treated via nonstochastic equations. It is argued that the SDE approach, previously used only for modeling the effect of internal noise on nuclear reactor dynamics, is also highly suitable for modeling external noise. The main advantage of our approach is the ability to arrive at analytic formulas. The contributions presented in this paper based on the SDE approach are as follows. Under a linear approximation of thermal feedback, the stabilizing effect of thermal feedback is explained and quantified, and a limiting distribution is analyzed in full. An analysis of the detector response on a finite time interval is carried out, leading to a version of the Feynman variance-to-mean-ratio formula in the presence of external noise. Finally, a calculation of the eigenvalues associated with the linearized system alluded to above is performed, showing that in practical cases the rod vibrations and inlet temperature fluctuations correspond to eigenvalues in distinct timescales. The significance of these finding is discussed.

2020: Heavy Traffic Limits for Join-the-Shortest-Estimated-Queue Policy Using Delayed Information
Abstract: We consider a load-balancing problem for a network of parallel queues in which information on the state of the queues is subject to a delay. In this setting, adopting a routing policy that performs well when applied to the current state of the queues can perform quite poorly when applied to the delayed state of the queues. Viewing this as a problem of control under partial observations, we propose using an estimate of the current queue lengths as the input to the join-the-shortest-queue policy. For a general class of estimation schemes, under heavy traffic conditions, we prove convergence of the diffusion-scaled process to a solution of a so-called diffusion model, in which an important step toward this goal establishes that the estimated queue lengths undergo state-space collapse. In some cases, our diffusion model is given by a novel stochastic delay equation with reflection, in which the Skorokhod boundary term appears with delay. We illustrate our results with examples of natural estimation schemes, discuss their implementability, and compare their relative performance using simulations.

2020: Persistent-Idle Load-Distribution
Abstract: A parallel server system is considered in which a dispatcher routes incoming jobs to a fixed number of heterogeneous servers, each with its own queue. Much effort has been previously made to design policies that use limited state information (e.g., the queue lengths in a small subset of the set of servers, or the identity of the idle servers). However, existing policies either do not achieve the stability region or perform poorly in terms of job completion time. We introduce Persistent-Idle (PI), a new, perhaps counterintuitive, load-distribution policy that is designed to work with limited state information. Roughly speaking, PI always routes to the server that has last been idle. Our main result is that this policy achieves the stability region. Because it operates quite differently from existing policies, our proof method differs from standard arguments in the literature. Specifically, large time properties of reflected random walk, along with a careful choice of a Lyapunov function, are combined to obtain a Lyapunov condition over sufficiently long-time intervals. We also provide simulation results that indicate that job completion times under PI are low for different choices of system parameters, compared with several state-of-the-art load-distribution schemes.

2020: A weak formulation of free boundary problems and its application to hydrodynamic limits of particle systems with selection
Abstract: A weak formulation for a class of parabolic free boundary problems (FBP) is proposed that does not involve the notion of a free boundary but reduces to a FBP when classical solutions exist. It is aimed at hydrodynamic limits (HDL) of particle systems with selection in circumstances where the macroscopic model does not possess (or is hard to prove to possess) a regular free boundary in the classical sense. The formulation involves the macroscopic density of particles and a measure that accounts for selection. It consists of a second order parabolic equation satisfied by the density and driven by the measure, coupled with a complementarity condition satisfied by the density-measure pair. The approach is applied to an injection-branching-selection particle system of diffusion on $\R$ under arbitrarily varying injection and removal rates, for which the corresponding FBP is not in general known to be classically solvable. The HDL is characterized as the unique solution to the weak formulation. The proof of convergence is based on PDE uniqueness, which in turn relies on the barrier method.

2020: Robust bounds and optimization at the large deviations scale for queueing models via Rényi divergence
Abstract: This paper develops tools to obtain robust probabilistic estimates for queueing models at the large deviations (LD) scale. These tools are based on the recently introduced robust Renyi bounds, which provide LD estimates (and more generally risk-sensitive (RS) cost estimates) that hold uniformly over an uncertainty class of models, provided that the class is defined in terms of Renyi divergence with respect to a reference model and that estimates are available for the reference model. One very attractive quality of the approach is that the class to which the estimates apply may consist of hard models, such as highly non-Markovian models and ones for which the LD principle is not available. Our treatment provides exact expressions as well as bounds on the Renyi divergence rate on families of marked point processes, including as a special case renewal processes. Another contribution is a general result that translates robust RS control problems, where robustness is formulated via Renyi divergence, to finite dimensional convex optimization problems, when the control set is a finite dimensional convex set. The implications to queueing are vast, as they apply in great generality. This is demonstrated on two non-Markovian queueing models. One is the multiclass single-server queue considered as a RS control problem, with scheduling as the control process and exponential weighted queue length as cost. The second is the many-server queue with reneging, with the probability of atypically large reneging count as performance criterion. As far as LD analysis is concerned, no robust estimates or non-Markovian treatment were previously available for either of these models.

2020: Customer-Server Population Dynamics in Heavy Traffic
Abstract: We study a many-server queueing model with server vacations, where the population size dynamics of servers and customers are coupled: a server may leave for vacation only when no customers await, and the capacity available to customers is directly affected by the number of servers on vacation. We focus on scaling regimes in which server dynamics and queue dynamics fluctuate at matching time scales so that their limiting dynamics are coupled. Specifically, we argue that interesting coupled dynamics occur in (a) the Halfin–Whitt regime, (b) the nondegenerate slowdown regime, and (c) the intermediate near Halfin–Whitt regime, whereas the dynamics asymptotically decouple in the other heavy-traffic regimes. We characterize the limiting dynamics, which are different for each scaling regime. We consider relevant respective performance measures for regimes (a) and (b)—namely, the probability of wait and the slowdown. Although closed-form formulas for these performance measures have been derived for models that do not accommodate server vacations, it is difficult to obtain closed-form formulas for these performance measures in the setting with server vacations. Instead, we propose formulas that approximate these performance measures and depend on the steady-state mean number of available servers and previously derived formulas for models without server vacations. We test the accuracy of these formulas numerically.

2020: The heat equation with order-respecting absorption and particle systems with topological interaction
Abstract: A PDE formulation is proposed, referred to as a heat equation with order-respecting absorption, aimed at characterizing hydrodynamic limits of a class of particle systems on the line with topological interaction that have so far been described by free boundary problems. It consists of the heat equation with measure-valued injection and absorption terms, where the absorption measure respects the usual order on $\R$ in the sense that, for all $r\in\R$, it charges $(-\iy,r)$ only at times when the solution vanishes on $(r,\iy)$. The formulation is used to obtain new hydrodynamic limit results for two models. One is a variant of the main model studied by Carinci, De Masi, Giardina and Presutti \cite{CDGPbook} where Brownian particles undergo injection according to a general injection measure, and removal that is restricted to the rightmost particle of the configuration. This partially addresses a conjecture of \cite{CDGPbook}. Next a Brownian particle system is considered where the $Q$-quantile member of the population is removed until extinction, where $Q$ is a given $[0,1]$-valued continuous function of time. Here, unlike in earlier work on the subject, the removal mechanism acts on particles that are `at the boundary' but are not rightmost or leftmost. Finally, further potential uses of order-respecting absorption are mentioned.

2019: Large Deviations for the Single-Server Queue and the Reneging Paradox
Abstract: For the M/M/1+M model at the law-of-large-numbers scale, the long-run reneging count per unit time does not depend on the individual (i.e., per customer) reneging rate. This paradoxical statement has a simple proof. Less obvious is a large deviations analogue of this fact, stated as follows: the decay rate of the probability that the long-run reneging count per unit time is atypically large or atypically small does not depend on the individual reneging rate. In this paper, the sample path large deviations principle for the model is proved and the rate function is computed. Next, large time asymptotics for the reneging rate are studied for the case when the arrival rate exceeds the service rate. The key ingredient is a calculus of variations analysis of the variational problem associated with atypical reneging. A characterization of the aforementioned decay rate, given explicitly in terms of the arrival and service rate parameters of the model, is provided yielding a precise mathematical description of this paradoxical behavior.

2019: Introduction to the Applied Probability Society’s “Open Problems in Applied Probability” Session at the INFORMS Annual Meeting, Phoenix, Arizona, November 4–7, 2018
Abstract: This Special Section of Stochastic Systems includes a number of open problems that were presented at a session organized by the Applied Probability Society during the INFORMS Annual Meeting held in...

2019: Replicate to the shortest queues
Abstract: None

2019: Subdiffusive Load Balancing in Time-Varying Queueing Systems
Abstract: The degree to which delays or queue lengths equalize under load-balancing algorithms gives a good indication of their performance. Some of the most well-known results in this context are concerned with the asymptotic behavior of the delay or queue length at the diffusion scale under a critical load condition, where arrival and service rates do not vary with time. For example, under the join-the-shortest-queue policy, the queue length deviation process, defined as the difference between the greatest and smallest queue length as it varies over time, is at a smaller scale (subdiffusive) than that of queue lengths (diffusive).

2019: High rate diffusion-scale approximation for counters with extendable dead time
Abstract: None

