Recent papers for Avi Parush:

2023: All it Takes is a Slight Rotation: Robotic Bar-stools Enhance Intimacy in Couples’ Conflict
Abstract: Couples’ ability to manage conflicts is fundamental in the discourse of romantic relationships. A supportive environment for conflict management highly depends on non-verbal communication cues. We explored the possibility to facilitate positive non-verbal cues by using autonomous furniture that do not alter the dyadic nature of the interaction. Couples discussed a subject of disagreement while seated on autonomous bar-stools. During the discussion, the stools rotated inward, directing partners toward one another. In the baseline condition, the bar-stools were inactive. Our findings showed that the inward rotation facilitated couples’ non-verbal cues (e.g., eye-gaze, body-orientation), which highly contributed to their communication and decreased conflict intensity. The positive effect was also evident in the number of intimate touch occurrences. The bar-stools’ movement led to a significant increase in hand-holding, kisses, and hugs. This work highlights the great potential of leveraging autonomous furniture for enhancing romantic interactions while preserving their intimate and emotional nature.

2023: Domestic electricity consumers and the interactive bill: design intervention for improved energy literacy and empowerment
Abstract: None

2023: Perceptions of Stress Among Pedestrians in Fully Automated Vehicle Transportation Systems
Abstract: Fully automated vehicle (FAV) technology is recognized to offer a variety of benefits, such as increased safety, a drop in emissions, and better quality of life for people with disabilities or without a driving license. Despite the benefits, it has not been widely adopted. Demographics and user personalities play a large role in technology adoption, but nonusers’ involvement is often overlooked. Considering the current attention on FAV technology and its users, pedestrians (who do not use it) are understudied. In future, FAVs may be deployed once they have been proven safe and accepted by the public. This study aimed to provide insights into how pedestrians’ emotional perceptions might influence their adoption of FAVs. Within-subject research was conducted using virtual reality-based videos to assess pedestrians’ perceptions of stress. Videos showed identical first-person-view walking scenarios of various spatial contexts and activities in urban transportation networks comprising all-human-driven vehicles (HDVs) and futuristic all-FAVs. The results indicated that pedestrians’ perceptions of stress differed significantly by vehicle type, spatial context, and activity. Further, they differed significantly by gender and whether walking was perceived as safe. Walking in all-FAV transportation systems was perceived as more stressful than walking in all-HDV systems. Women tended to report higher levels of stress. Crossing roads and shared pathways were also associated with higher levels of perceived stress. Research related to pedestrians’ emotional perceptions could have important implications for future policymaking and urban planning.

2023: Trust Dispersion and Effective Human-AI Collaboration: The Role of Psychological Safety (Short Paper)
Abstract: Trust is a crucial factor in team performance for human-human and human-AI teams. While research made significant advancements in uncovering factors that affect the human decision to trust their AI teammate, it disregards the potential dynamics of trust in teams with multiple team members. To address this gap, we propose that trust in AI is an emergent state that can be differentiated on the individual and team level. We highlight the importance of considering the dispersion of trust levels in human-AI teams to understand better how trust influences team performance. Furthermore, we transfer the concept of psychological safety from human psychology literature and propose its role in buffering the potential adverse effects of dispersed trust attitudes.

2023: ReRun: Enabling Multi-Perspective Analysis of Driving Interaction in VR
Abstract: Rerun is a software system to support post-facto analysis in simulation research. In this submission, we show it working inside a multiplayer driving simulator. Rerun is built in Unity 3D and captures the virtual behavior of participants and their interactions with virtual objects. These recorded behaviors can then be played back from any perspective in the virtual space. This is useful in multi-agent interaction studies because researchers can sift through scenarios carefully from each participant's perspective or even from an outside observer's perspective. This enables a fine-grained understanding of implicit and explicit signaling between participants and other human or AI-controlled agents.

2022: Overall Visibility Might Offer False Affordance to Indoor Wayfinding: The Role of Global and Local Landmarks
Abstract: Using a virtual 3D model of a shopping center, this study explored whether greater visibility provided by transparent walls in the building model, along with the presence of global and local landmarks, facilitated indoors wayfinding. Participants observed video clips of a virtual walkthrough either in a building with transparent or opaque walls, responded to wayfinding questions, and their eye movements were tracked while watching the video. Findings showed no significant difference between participants in the transparent and opaque building in answering wayfinding questions. Eye movements showed significantly longer eye fixations for participants in the transparent building compared to participants in the opaque building, in addition to longer fixations on global landmarks compared to local landmarks. Taken together, the findings imply that the greater visibility through the transparent walls may have offered false wayfinding affordance, rather than facilitate wayfinding decisions.

2022: Reducing Abandonment and Improving Attitudes in Emergency Departments: Integrating Delay Announcements into Operational Transparency to Signal Service Quality
Abstract: None

2022: Architectural features and indoor evacuation wayfinding: The starting point matters
Abstract: None

2022: Domestic Electricity Consumers and the Interactive Bill: Design Intervention for Improved Energy Literacy and Empowerment
Abstract: None

2022: Unmasking expert decisions: Clinicians decision making during a pandemic outbreak
Abstract: ABSTRACT Decision making is based on information, but in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, information was scarce, while healthcare organizations and individual caregivers were pressured to make decisions about working protocols and clinical procedures. This study examined decision-making of individual clinicians that were involved in clinical and operational decisions during the early days of the pandemic. The study followed the critical decision method, and the cognitive interview was administered to 10 healthcare professionals from three countries. The interviews were analysed with an inductive analysis, followed by a theoretical thematic analysis. The inductive themes included the key themes of missing information, information flood, collaboration, collective responsibility, new working procedures, organizational preparedness, over-reactions, operations, dynamic decision making, and personal experience. The theoretical themes that fit natural decision-making models included relevant clinical cues, plausible treatment goals, expectations, actions, and intuition. Additional themes were identified, including operational challenges, evolving goals, ad-hoc actions, and resilience in operational decisions, suggesting that some decisions were unprimed, presenting a new conceptual model. Theoretically, the study suggests that experts can face situations that require them to make decisions that are within their field of operation (within context) and yet ‘out of expertise’, and those decisions may be unprimed.

2022: Cross‐professional Communication in Various Healthcare Settings and Implications to Patient Safety
Abstract: Effective Human‐System Integration in healthcare must consider cross‐profession coordination and communication. Ineffective communication could degrade effective coordination and collaboration, and result in poor quality of care and potential adverse events. In this talk I will briefly overview several studies exploring similarities and differences in cross‐profession communication patterns in various healthcare settings, and their implications to human‐system integration and patient safety.

2022: Rerun: Enabling Multi-Perspective Analysis of Driving Interaction in VR
Abstract: Rerun is a software system to support post-facto analysis of driving simulation research. It is built in Unity 3D, and captures virtual driving behavior so that it can be played back. A unique feature of Rerun is that the playback can be rendered from any perspective in the virtual space. This is useful in multi-person interaction studies because researchers can examine scenarios from each participant’s perspective, or even from an outside observer’s perspective. This enables fine-grained understanding of implicit and explicit signalling between participants, enabling research to reconstruct what factors are pertinent to driving communication.

2022: Strangers in a Strange Land: New Experimental System for Understanding Driving Culture Using VR
Abstract: In order for autonomous vehicles to adapt to local norms in human driving, it is critical to profile how human driving differs across geographical locations. While ethnographers have qualitatively described regional differences in driving style, data-driven statistical models might help computer-driven cars drive like locals and recognize how local drivers might be signaling through hand/body movement and motion of their vehicles. To this end, we have created an experimental system and method to profile driving behavior and interaction using a multi-participant virtual reality (VR) driving simulation environment. The system was designed to be portable and to support cross-cultural experimental deployments. We aim to make sure the system is operational and functional, can model diverse scenarios, generates data fit for analysis, and captures expected behaviors. We describe the system, test scenarios, and findings of the proof-of-concept study conducted in the U.S. and Israel.

2021: “Vaccine Passports” May Backfire: Findings from a Cross-Sectional Study in the UK and Israel on Willingness to Get Vaccinated against COVID-19
Abstract: Domestic “vaccine passports” are being implemented across the world as a way of increasing vaccinated people’s freedom of movement and to encourage vaccination. However, these vaccine passports may affect people’s vaccination decisions in unintended and undesirable ways. This cross-sectional study investigated whether people’s willingness and motivation to get vaccinated relate to their psychological needs (autonomy, competence and relatedness), and how vaccine passports might affect these needs. Across two countries and 1358 participants, we found that need frustration—particularly autonomy frustration—was associated with lower willingness to get vaccinated and with a shift from self-determined to external motivation. In Israel (a country with vaccine passports), people reported greater autonomy frustration than in the UK (a country without vaccine passports). Our findings suggest that control measures, such as domestic vaccine passports, may have detrimental effects on people’s autonomy, motivation, and willingness to get vaccinated. Policies should strive to achieve a highly vaccinated population by supporting individuals’ autonomous motivation to get vaccinated and using messages of autonomy and relatedness, rather than applying pressure and external controls.

2021: Hospital at Home Program: Barriers to Adoption
Abstract: Hospital at home program allows patients to receive hospital-level care in the comfort of their own homes. This paper identifies barriers to adopting hospital at home program among patients, caregivers and healthcare providers.

2021: Information Chaos: An Adapted Framework Describing Citizens' Experiences with Information During COVID-19
Abstract: With the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, clinicians, public officials, and citizens alike struggled to stay abreast of the constant and evolving stream of information about the clinical manifestations of illness, epidemiology of the disease, and the public health response. In this paper, we adapted (i.e., added and modified elements) Beasley and colleagues' information chaos framework to understand the context of citizens' experiences with information during the COVID-19 pandemic. We will show how our adapted framework can be used to characterize information associated challenges observed during this time and the possible impact of information chaos on peoples' cognition and behaviours. Ultimately, we believe that research will benefit by adopting a more holistic perspective using the information chaos framework than strictly studying the independent factors in isolation.

2020: Human Factor Considerations in Using Personal Protective Equipment in the COVID-19 Pandemic Context: Binational Survey Study
Abstract: Background Full level 1 personal protective equipment (PPE) is used in various domains and contexts. Prior research has shown influences of such equipment on performance, comfort, and contamination levels. The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic forced a pervasive requirement of PPE, with little preparation, rushed deployment, inadequate time for training, and massive use by personnel who are inexperienced or not qualified in its effective use. Objective This study aims to examine the key human factors (physical and ergonomic, perceptual and cognitive) that influence the use of level 1 PPE when attending to patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19. Methods The research approach consisted of a short survey disseminated to health care professionals in two countries, Israel and Portugal, with similar demographics and health care systems. The survey included 10 items with a 5-point Likert scale regarding the key human factors involved in level 1 PPE, as identified in prior research. Results A total of 722 respondents from Israel and 301 respondents from Portugal were included in the analysis. All the respondents reported using level 1 PPE with patients with COVID-19 in the range of several hours daily to several hours weekly. The Cronbach α was .73 for Israel and .75 for Portugal. Responses showed high levels of difficulty, with medians of 4 for items related to discomfort (n=539/688, 78% in Israel; n=328/377, 87% in Portugal), hearing (n=236/370, 64% in Portugal; n=321/642, 50% in Israel), seeing (n=697/763, 89% in Israel; n=317/376, 84% in Portugal), and doffing (n=290/374, 77% in Portugal; n=315/713, 44% in Israel). A factor analysis showed a set of strongly related variables consisting of hearing, understanding speech, and understanding the situation. This suggests that degradation in communication was strongly associated with degradation in situational awareness. A subsequent mediation analysis showed a direct effect of PPE discomfort on situational awareness (P<.001); this was also influenced (mediated) by difficulties in communicating, namely in hearing and understanding speech. Conclusions In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic is paving the way for updating PPE design. The use of already deployed technology affords ample opportunities to improve, adapt, and overcome caveats. The findings here suggest that the use of level 1 PPE with patients with COVID-19 has perceptual and cognitive effects, in addition to physical and ergonomic influences. Efforts should be taken to mitigate the harmful effects of such influences, both regarding the performance of medical actions and the risk of contamination to health care workers. Such efforts involve the design of PPE; the introduction of technologies to enhance vision, hearing, and communicating during the use of PPE; and training staff in using the equipment and in effective communication and teamwork protocols.

2020: Design and Test of a Graphic Medication Dosage Calculator in Paramedic Practice With Children
Abstract: Background Children are more vulnerable to medication errors during prehospital care because of paramedic staff having less experience with pediatric patients. One of the possible solutions to this problem is the use of technologies as cognitive aids to medication dosage calculation. Objective Design and empirically test a graphic dosage calculator tailored for pediatric medication calculation in prehospital emergency care. Methods The design and development of the calculator followed an iterative user-centered design process. Fourteen novice and 16 experienced paramedics participated in the empirical test of the graphic calculator by running 3 pediatric medication scenarios with both the graphic calculator and a pocket handbook used currently to aid calculations. Results It took significantly less time to complete the scenarios with the graphic calculator compared with the handbook. Both novice and experienced paramedics expressed similar levels of confidence with using the graphic calculator. Participants expressed a strong preference for the graphic calculator. Finally, the graphic calculator was scored significantly above a standard usability benchmark. Discussion The results show that the graphic calculator was usable, more effective, efficient, and preferred compared with the current dosage calculation method. Technologies such as the graphic calculator designed and tested in this study can help not only with the rare cases, such as pediatrics, but might also mitigate skill decay.

2020: Attention Allocation to Physically Separate Task and Situation Displays in a Command and Control Setting
Abstract: Using a simulated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) dispatch center during multi-casualty incident management, this study explored whether the presence of a separate situation display in a Command and Control (C2) setting might require attention at the expense of attending an individual task display, and how it influenced performance and situational awareness. Overall, participants always attended the task display more than the situation display. However, the situation display drew attention at the expense of attending less the task display. The presence of the situation display was related to improved performance and better situational awareness (SA), particularly in the projection level of the SA, which could account also for the better decision-making performance. Participants may have developed an attention allocation strategy to effectively utilize the information of the situation display and execute their tasks on the task display.

2020: Predictive Situation Display for Emergency Medical Services: Situational Awareness in Multi-Casualty Incidents
Abstract: The management of a multi-casualty incident (MCI) requires effective situational awareness. This paper describes the design and test of a situation display for the dispatch center of emergency medical services during the MCI. The display consists of areas showing the amount and locations of vehicles en-route to the incident area, statistics about vehicles and casualties on site, and state of hospitals and evacuating vehicles. The display also includes predictive elements. The study shows that the presence of the predictive elements facilitated more correct responses to situational awareness probes, particularly those requiring projection. In addition, the findings show that the predictive elements facilitated more correct responses to situation management questions.

