Recent papers for Avigdor Gal:

2023: Data Makes Better Data Scientists
Abstract: With the goal of identifying common practices in data science projects, this paper proposes a framework for logging and understanding incremental code executions in Jupyter notebooks. This framework aims to allow reasoning about how insights are generated in data science and extract key observations into best data science practices in the wild. In this paper, we show an early prototype of this framework and ran an experiment to log a machine learning project for 25 undergraduate students.

2023: LOUC: Leave-One-Out-Calibration Measure for Analyzing Human Matcher Performance
Abstract: Schema matching is a core data integration task, focusing on identifying correspondences among attributes of multiple schemata. Numerous algorithmic approaches were suggested for schema matching over the years, aiming at solving the task with as little human involvement as possible. Yet, humans are still required in the loop -- to validate algorithms and to produce ground truth data for algorithms to be trained against. In recent years, a new research direction investigates the capabilities and behavior of humans while performing matching tasks. Previous works utilized this knowledge to predict, and even improve, the performance of human matchers. In this work, we continue this line of research by suggesting a novel measure to evaluate the performance of human matchers, based on calibration, a common meta-cognition measure. The proposed measure enables detailed analysis of various factors of the behavior of human matchers and their relation to human performance. Such analysis can be further utilized to develop heuristics and methods to better asses and improve the annotation quality.

2023: Conceptually-grounded Mapping Patterns for Virtual Knowledge Graphs
Abstract: None

2023: The biggest business process management problems to solve before we die
Abstract: None

2023: One Algorithm to Rule Them All: On the Changing Roles of Humans in Data Integration
Abstract: Data integration is an essential element of today’s ecosystem. In this article, we take the reader on a trip from the days when data integration was a human-intensive task, through the era of algorithmic-supported data integration and show a vision of what the future may bring.

2023: Spatio-Temporal Analysis in High Resolution of Tweets Associated with the November 2016 Wildfire in Haifa (Israel)
Abstract: None

2022: Uncovering the shape of neighborhoods: Harnessing data analytics for a smart governance of urban areas
Abstract: None

2022: Conformance Checking Over Stochastically Known Logs
Abstract: None

2022: SKTR: Trace Recovery from Stochastically Known Logs
Abstract: Developments in machine learning together with the increasing usage of sensor data challenge the reliance on deterministic logs, requiring new process mining solutions for uncertain, and in particular stochastically known, logs. In this work we formulate trace recovery, the task of generating a deterministic log from stochastically known logs that is as faithful to reality as possible. An effective trace recovery algorithm would be a powerful aid for maintaining credible process mining tools for uncertain settings. We propose an algorithmic framework for this task that recovers the best alignment between a stochastically known log and a process model, with three innovative features. Our algorithm, SKT R, 1) handles both Markovian and non-Markovian processes; 2) offers a quality-based balance between a process model and a log, depending on the available process information, sensor quality, and machine learning predictiveness power; and 3) offers a novel use of a synchronous product multigraph to create the log. An empirical analysis using five publicly available datasets, three of which use predictive models over standard video capturing benchmarks, shows an average relative accuracy improvement of more than 10% over a common baseline.

2022: Human's Role in-the-Loop
Abstract: Data integration has been recently challenged by the need to handle large volumes of data, arriving at high velocity from a variety of sources, which demonstrate varying levels of veracity. This challenging setting, often referred to as big data, renders many of the existing techniques, especially those that are human-intensive, obsolete. Big data also produces technological advancements such as Internet of things, cloud computing, and deep learning, and accordingly, provides a new, exciting, and challenging research agenda. Given the availability of data and the improvement of machine learning techniques, this blog discusses the respective roles of humans and machines in achieving cognitive tasks in matching, aiming to determine whether traditional roles of humans and machines are subject to change. Such investigation, we believe, will pave a way to better utilize both human and machine resources in new and innovative manners. We shall discuss two possible modes of change, namely humans out and humans in. Humans out aim at exploring out-of-the-box latent matching reasoning using machine learning algorithms when attempting to overpower human matcher performance. Pursuing out-of-the-box thinking, machine and deep learning can be involved in matching. Humans in explores how to better involve humans in the matching loop by assigning human matchers with a symmetric role to algorithmic matcher in the matching process.

2022: AI-augmented Business Process Management Systems: A Research Manifesto
Abstract: AI-augmented Business Process Management Systems (ABPMSs) are an emerging class of process-aware information systems, empowered by trustworthy AI technology. An ABPMS enhances the execution of business processes with the aim of making these processes more adaptable, proactive, explainable, and context-sensitive. This manifesto presents a vision for ABPMSs and discusses research challenges that need to be surmounted to realize this vision. To this end, we define the concept of ABPMS, we outline the lifecycle of processes within an ABPMS, we discuss core characteristics of an ABPMS, and we derive a set of challenges to realize systems with these characteristics.

2021: ADaMaP: Automatic Alignment of Relational Data Sources using Mapping Patterns (Abstract)
Abstract: None

2021: From Limited Annotated Raw Material Data to Quality Production Data: A Case Study in the Milk Industry
Abstract: Industry 4.0 offers opportunities to combine multiple sensor data sources using IoT technologies for better utilization of raw material in production lines. A common belief that data is readily available (the big data phenomenon), is oftentimes challenged by the need to effectively acquire quality data under severe constraints. In this paper we propose a design methodology, using active learning to enhance learning capabilities, for building a model of production outcome using a constrained amount of raw material training data. The proposed methodology extends existing active learning methods to effectively solve regression-based learning problems and may serve settings where data acquisition requires excessive resources in the physical world. We further suggest a set of qualitative measures to analyze learners performance. The proposed methodology is demonstrated using an actual application in the milk industry, where milk is gathered from multiple small milk farms and brought to a dairy production plant to be processed into cottage cheese.

2021: PoWareMatch: A Quality-aware Deep Learning Approach to Improve Human Schema Matching
Abstract: Schema matching is a core task of any data integration process. Being investigated in the fields of databases, AI, Semantic Web, and data mining for many years, the main challenge remains the ability to generate quality matches among data concepts (e.g., database attributes). In this work, we examine a novel angle on the behavior of humans as matchers, studying match creation as a process. We analyze the dynamics of common evaluation measures (precision, recall, and f-measure), with respect to this angle and highlight the need for unbiased matching to support this analysis. Unbiased matching, a newly defined concept that describes the common assumption that human decisions represent reliable assessments of schemata correspondences, is, however, not an inherent property of human matchers. In what follows, we design PoWareMatch that makes use of a deep learning mechanism to calibrate and filter human matching decisions adhering to the quality of a match, which are then combined with algorithmic matching to generate better match results. We provide an empirical evidence, established based on an experiment with more than 200 human matchers over common benchmarks, that PoWareMatch predicts well the benefit of extending the match with an additional correspondence and generates high-quality matches. In addition, PoWareMatch outperforms state-of-the-art matching algorithms.

2021: Knowledge-driven Data Ecosystems Towards Data Transparency
Abstract: A Data Ecosystem offers a keystone-player or alliance-driven infrastructure that enables the interaction of different stakeholders and the resolution of interoperability issues among shared data. However, despite years of research in data governance and management, trustability is still affected by the absence of transparent and traceable data-driven pipelines. In this work, we focus on requirements and challenges that data ecosystems face when ensuring data transparency. Requirements are derived from the data and organizational management, as well as from broader legal and ethical considerations. We propose a novel knowledge-driven data ecosystem architecture, providing the pillars for satisfying the analyzed requirements. We illustrate the potential of our proposal in a real-world scenario. Lastly, we discuss and rate the potential of the proposed architecture in the fulfillment of these requirements.

2021: Learning to Rerank Schema Matches
Abstract: Schema matching is at the heart of integrating structured and semi-structured data with applications in data warehousing, data analysis recommendations, Web table matching, <italic>etc.</italic> Schema matching is known as an uncertain process and a common method to overcome this uncertainty introduces a human expert with a ranked list of possible schema matches to choose from, known as <italic>top-<inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$K$</tex-math><alternatives><mml:math><mml:mi>K</mml:mi></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="shraga-ieq1-2962124.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula> matching</italic>. In this work we propose a learning algorithm that utilizes an innovative set of features to rerank a list of schema matches and improves upon the ranking of the best match. We provide a bound on the size of an initial match list, tying the number of matches with a desired level of confidence in finding the best match. We also propose the use of matching predictors as features in a learning task, and tailored nine new matching predictors for this purpose. The proposed algorithm assists the matching process by introducing a quality set of alternative matches to a human expert. It also serves as a step towards eliminating the involvement of human experts as decision makers in a matching process altogether. A large scale empirical evaluation with real-world benchmark shows the effectiveness of the proposed algorithmic solution.

2021: Uncertain Process Data with Probabilistic Knowledge: Problem Characterization and Challenges
Abstract: Motivated by the abundance of uncertain event data from multiple sources including physical devices and sensors, this paper presents the task of relating a stochastic process observation to a process model that can be rendered from a dataset. In contrast to previous research that suggested to transform a stochastically known event log into a less informative uncertain log with upper and lower bounds on activity frequencies, we consider the challenge of accommodating the probabilistic knowledge into conformance checking techniques. Based on a taxonomy that captures the spectrum of conformance checking cases under stochastic process observations, we present three types of challenging cases. The first includes conformance checking of a stochastically known log with respect to a given process model. The second case extends the first to classify a stochastically known log into one of several process models. The third case extends the two previous ones into settings in which process models are only stochastically known. The suggested problem captures the increasingly growing number of applications in which sensors provide probabilistic process information.

2021: Knowledge-Driven Data Ecosystems Toward Data Transparency
Abstract: A data ecosystem (DE) offers a keystone-player or alliance-driven infrastructure that enables the interaction of different stakeholders and the resolution of interoperability issues among shared data. However, despite years of research in data governance and management, trustability is still affected by the absence of transparent and traceable data-driven pipelines. In this work, we focus on requirements and challenges that DEs face when ensuring data transparency. Requirements are derived from the data and organizational management, as well as from broader legal and ethical considerations. We propose a novel knowledge-driven DE architecture, providing the pillars for satisfying the analyzed requirements. We illustrate the potential of our proposal in a real-world scenario. Last, we discuss and rate the potential of the proposed architecture in the fulfillmentof these requirements.

2020: Queueing Inference for Process Performance Analysis with Missing Life-Cycle Data
Abstract: Measuring key performance indicators, such as queue lengths and waiting times, using event logs serve for improvement of resource-driven business processes. However, existing techniques assume the availability of complete life cycle information, including the time a case was scheduled for execution (aka arrival times). Yet, in practice, such information may be missing for a large portion of the recorded cases. In this paper, we propose a methodology to address missing life-cycle data by incorporating predicted information in business processes performance analysis. Our approach builds upon techniques from queueing theory and leverages supervised learning to accurately predict performance indicators based on an event log with missing data. Our experimental results using both synthetic and real-world data demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.

2020: Discovering Hierarchical Processes Using Flexible Activity Trees for Event Abstraction
Abstract: Processes, such as patient pathways, can be very complex, comprising of hundreds of activities and dozens of interleaved subprocesses. While existing process discovery algorithms have proven to construct models of high quality on clean logs of structured processes, it still remains a challenge when the algorithms are being applied to logs of complex processes. The creation of a multi-level, hierarchical representation of a process can help to manage this complexity. However, current approaches that pursue this idea suffer from a variety of weaknesses. In particular, they do not deal well with interleaving subprocesses. In this paper, we propose FlexHMiner, a three-step approach to discover processes with multi-level interleaved subprocesses. We implemented FlexHMiner in the open source Process Mining toolkit ProM. We used seven real-life logs to compare the qualities of hierarchical models discovered using domain knowledge, random clustering, and flat approaches. Our results indicate that the hierarchical process models that the FlexHMiner generates compare favorably to approaches that do not exploit hierarchy.

