Recent papers for Avishai Mandelbaum:

2023: Preface to the Special Issue on Behavioral Queueing Science: The Need for a Multidisciplinary Approach
Abstract: Preface to the Special Issue on Behavioral Queueing Science: The Need for a Multidisciplinary Approach Modern service systems are economically important but operationally complex. In “Preface to the Special Issue on Behavioral Queueing Science: The Need for a Multidisciplinary Approach,” Ingolfsson, Mandelbaum, Schultz, and Yom-Tov discuss how this special issue advances the scientific study of queues in services systems by acknowledging the central role of human behavior. Behavioral queueing science requires a multidisciplinary approach, using tools that include mathematical modelling, lab experiments and field studies. Each discipline has strengths and weaknesses, but together they have complementing goals, and jointly they give rise to a scientific paradigm for behavioral queues. Cross-disciplinary work is challenging but necessary. The eleven papers in our special issue show how this can be done successfully while setting an example for future work.

2022: Self‐reporting and screening: Data with right‐censored, left‐censored, and complete observations
Abstract: We consider survival data that combine three types of observations: uncensored, right‐censored, and left‐censored. Such data arises from screening a medical condition, in situations where self‐detection arises naturally. Our goal is to estimate the failure‐time distribution, based on these three observation types. We propose a novel methodology for distribution estimation using both semiparametric and nonparametric techniques. We then evaluate the performance of these estimators via simulated data. Finally, as a case study, we estimate the patience of patients who arrive at an emergency department and wait for treatment. Three categories of patients are observed: those who leave the system and announce it, and thus their patience time is observed; those who get service and thus their patience time is right‐censored by the waiting time; and those who leave the system without announcing it. For this third category, the patients' absence is revealed only when they are called to service, which is after they have already left; formally, their patience time is left‐censored. Other applications of our proposed methodology are discussed.

2022: Appointment-driven service systems with many servers
Abstract: None

2022: Waiting Experience in Open-Shop Service Networks: Improvements via Flow Analytics & Automation
Abstract: Waiting-for-service is a central, typically detrimental, factor in service experiences, and multiple delays will most likely amplify customers’ poor impressions of a service. Yet multi-delay experiences are commonly assessed via macro measurements, e.g., overall waiting, as opposed to micro measurements that account for individual delays, e.g., maximal or most-recent delay. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the challenges of controlling micro measures – physical distancing has turned short queues and waits into rigid constraints. Our paper, motivated by a health screening clinic, jointly considers macro and micro measurements. To improve customers’ waiting experience, the clinic implemented two information technologies: automated customer routing system (ACRS) and SMS-based customer paging system (SCPS). However, as our empirical study of the clinic revealed, these implementations had no signiﬁcant impact for three main reasons. First, ACRS reduced system ﬂexibility and thus caused unintended idleness of resources. Second, SCPS improved non-bottleneck activities. Third, the clinic automated its sub-optimal practice, namely station-level ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst-served policy, leading to long delays towards the end of a customer’s route. Nevertheless, these initiatives could facilitate enhanced operations and improve waiting experience. To this end, via a stylized queueing model and a data-driven simulation model of the clinic, we analyze delays in an open-shop service network. Our models reveal that a priority-based buﬀer strategy, which accounts for both system- and station-level characteristics, improves both macro- and micro-level measurements. In particular, when prioritizing according to shortest expected remaining processing time priority-base buﬀer policy, performance improves at both micro-level by 41.9% and macro-level by 14.9%.

2020: Data-Driven Appointment-Scheduling Under Uncertainty: The Case of an Infusion Unit in a Cancer Center
Abstract: Service systems are often stochastic and preplanned by appointments, yet implementations of their appointment systems are prevalently deterministic. At the planning stage of healthcare services, fo...

2020: Bed Blocking in Hospitals Due to Scarce Capacity in Geriatric Institutions - Cost Minimization via Fluid Models
Abstract: Problem definition: This research focuses on elderly patients who have been hospitalized and are ready to be discharged, but they must remain in the hospital until a bed in a geriatric institution ...

2019: Erlang-S: A Data-Based Model of Servers in Queueing Networks
Abstract: Classical queueing theory has typically focused on customers, and server availability has been taken for granted. However, data accessibility and the emergence of complex service systems, for examp...

2019: Statistical Theory Powering Data Science
Abstract: Statisticians are finding their place in the emerging field of data 
science. However, many issues considered “new” in data science have long 
histories in statistics. Examples of using statistical thinking are illustrated, 
which range from exploratory data analysis to measuring uncertainty to accommodating 
nonrandom samples. These examples are then applied to service 
networks, baseball predictions and official statistics.

2019: Call for Papers
Abstract: Customers and servers in queueing systems co-produce service. Successful design and operation of queueing systems requires an empirically-grounded understanding of how customers and servers behave and mathematical models that incorporate salient aspects of customer and server behavior. In this special issue, we aim to publish articles that advance knowledge about how servers and customers behave and interact, and how such behaviors can be inferred, modelled and analyzed. We wish to advance the dialogue between empirical researchers, data scientists, and mathematical modelers. We are looking for papers that fall into one (or both) of the following categories:

2019: A novel methodology to measure waiting times for community-based specialist care in a public healthcare system
Abstract: Background: Monitoring of waiting time (WT) in healthcare systems is essential, since long WT are associated with adverse health outcomes, reduced patient satisfaction and increased private financing. Objective: To develop a methodology for routine national monitoring of WT for community-based non-urgent specialist appointments, in a public healthcare system. Design: Observational historical study using data from computerized appointment scheduling systems of all Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) in Israel. Data sources: Data included available appointments for community-based specialists and actual number of visits. The first 50 available appointments from each specialist appointment book were collected throughout December 2018. Five most frequently visited specialties - orthopedics, ophthalmology, gynecology, dermatology and otolaryngology - were included. Data collection/extraction approach: WT offered to HMO members (OWT) were calculated for two scenarios: specific physician and any physician in the clinic's geographical region. Distribution of OWT was calculated separately for each specialty and geographical region, combined to create the nationwide distribution, and expressed as mean, standard deviation and percentiles. Principal findings: Estimated national median OWT for "specific" physician, ranged from 6 days (ophthalmology) to 13 days (dermatology), with large variation between geographic regions. OWT for any physician were 28-50% shorter than for specific physician. Conclusions: This novel method offers a solution for ongoing national WT measurement, using computerized scheduling systems. It integrates patient preferences for physician choice and allows identification of differences between specialties and regions, setting the ground for interventions to strengthen public healthcare systems.

2019: Statisticians Practicing Data Science
Abstract: Statisticians are finding their place in the emerging field of data science. However, many issues considered “new” in data science have long histories in statistics. Examples of using statistical thinking are illustrated, which range from exploratory data analysis to measuring uncertainty to accommodating non-random samples. These examples are then applied to service networks, baseball predictions, and official statistics.

2018: Time-varying tandem queues with blocking: modeling, analysis, and operational insights via fluid models with reflection
Abstract: None

2018: Self-reporting and screening: Data with current-status and censored observations
Abstract: We consider survival data that combine three types of observations: uncensored, right-censored, and left-censored. Such data arises from screening a medical condition, in situations where self-detection arises naturally. Our goal is to estimate the failure-time distribution, based on these three observation types. We propose a novel methodology for distribution estimation using both parametric and nonparametric techniques. We then evaluate the performance of these estimators via simulated data. Finally, as a case study, we estimate the patience of patients who arrive at an emergency department and wait for treatment. Three categories of patients are observed: those who leave the system and announce it, and thus their patience time is observed; those who get service and thus their patience time is right-censored by the waiting time; and those who leave the system without announcing it. For the third category, the patients' absence is revealed only when they are called to service, which is after they have already left; formally, their patience time is left-censored. Other applications of our proposed methodology are discussed.

2018: Time-varying tandem queues with blocking: modeling, analysis, and operational insights via fluid models with reflection
Abstract: None

2018: Time-varying many-server finite-queues in tandem: Comparing blocking mechanisms via fluid models
Abstract: None

2018: To aggregate or to eliminate? Optimal model simplification for improved process performance prediction
Abstract: None

2017: Refined Models for Efficiency-Driven Queues with Applications to Delay Announcements and Staffing
Abstract: Data has revealed a noticeable impact of delay-time-related information on phone-customers; for example and somewhat surprisingly, delay announcements can abruptly increase the likelihood to abandon (hang up). Our starting point is that the latter phenomena can be used to support the control of queue lengths and delays. We do so by timing the announcements appropriately and determining the staffing levels accordingly. To this end, we model a service system as an overloaded GI/M/s + GI queue, in which we seek to minimize the number of servers, s, subject to quality-of-service constraints (e.g., fraction abandoning), while accounting for the instantaneous (hence discontinuous) impact of an announcement on the distribution (hazard rate) of customer patience. For tractability, our analysis is asymptotic as s increases indefinitely, and it is naturally efficiency-driven (namely the servers are highly busy, and hence essentially all customers are delayed in queue prior to service). This requires one to go beyon...

2017: Quantifying the electronic medical record implementation to stabilization curve.
Abstract: 140Background: The implementation of electronic medical records (EMR) has been noted to disrupt clinical workflows as providers acclimate to a new EMR. On May 30, 2015, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) implemented a new EMR. Using our Real Time Location System (RTLS), we sought to identify the time required to stabilize the experience for providers. We identified factors that may speed the stabilization rate to guide EMR implementations elsewhere. Methods: DFCI uses an RTLS to timestamp patient and provider locations throughout the day. To adjust for variation in appointment types, we measured the ratio of the actual exam duration (recorded by the RTLS) to the scheduled exam duration. We compared to a 3-month baseline average to quantify the immediate impact of implementation. We tracked the ratio over time to identify when stabilization occurred and compare to baseline performance. To infer influential factors, we performed a regression analysis based on RTLS data from the first 6 months post implemen...

2017: Data-Based Resource-View of Service Networks: Performance Analysis, Delay Prediction and Asymptotics PhD Proposal
Abstract: None

2017: Traveling time prediction in scheduled transportation with journey segments
Abstract: None

