Recent papers for Bar-David Israel:

2004: Combined approach to design of microwave interdigital filters
Abstract: The paper presents a simplified analytical method of calculating interdigital filter circuit parameters based on a narrow-band representation of a coupled line circuit. It allows fast implementation of the analytical calculations of even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances of coupled lines forming an interdigital filter for subsequent CAD calculation. The main advantage of this method is the possibility of choosing various original filter parameters according to the designer's desire. We present also a calculation example and results of an experimental filter fabrication.

2003: Device for detecting an envelope of the high frequency power signals
Abstract: None

2002: In Apologiam — rules of the game and plagiarism
Abstract: Publicly available scienti&c knowledge results from the accumulated work of all researchers sharing their ideas and results with others. This edi&ce is enormous but it is made up of small units each one of us contributes. To &t one new piece into the knowledge base, two main conditions must be ful&lled. First, the contribution must be new, and second, it must be evaluated by peer review. The novelty is mainly the responsibility of the contributor. The state-of-the-art must be known and the added value must be clearly presented. Evaluation is in the hands of editors. They rely on a large team of experts who assess the proposal, check the novelty, possibly suggest improvements, or reject. The whole process is based on mutual trust and con&dence. Whenever it is broken, the case does not help the o/ender at all. In theory, the rules are simple. In practice, although not perfect, all in all, the system has worked quite well for a very long time. Occasionally, we do face problems in applying these conditions, as individual interpretations, local, national or continental conditions may vary. Although collaborative, the process quite naturally involves competition. The number of publications in a curriculum vitae still plays a non-negligible role when applying for a job or going through an evaluation. The new-comers need to be well trained with respect to publishing. They should all realize that paying proper credit to the state-of-the-art does not take away any value of their work, provided that it has some originality. Excellence leads to notoriety, but the converse is not true. What counts is the integral of a person’s contributions. One may fool some of the people some of the time, but not all of the people all of the time. Developing amnesia with respect to published work cannot be tolerated. Even worse are cases of kleptomania leading to plagiarism. Those who su/er from kleptomania should realize that it is very serious, with severe consequences for their career. One of the basic goals of peer review is to check the originality of contributions. For various reasons, the process is unfortunately not fraud-proof. A plagiarism going through unnoticed happily occurs only very rarely. We regret to inform our readers that, for the &rst time in the 24-year long history of our journal, such a case has come to light. The paper byM.B. El Mashade, entitled “Postdetection integration analysis of the excision CFAR radar target detection technique in homogenous and nonhomogenous environments”, published in Vol. 81, the November 2001 issue of our journal, on pp. 2267–2284, contains a considerable number of instances of plagiarism with respect to the original papers by H. Goldman and I. Bar-David, “Analysis and Applications of the Excision CFAR Detector”, IEE Proceedings, Part F, December 1988, pp. 563–575, and by H. Goldman, “Performance of the Excision CFAR Detector in the Presence of Interferers”, IEE Proceedings, Part F, June 1990, pp. 163–171, as listed below. We herewith o/er, together with our referees, our sincerest apologies to Dr. H. Goldman, to Professor I. Bar-David, and to our readers for not detecting this very unfortunate case during the review procedure. The following instances of plagiarism have been compiled by Dr. H. Goldman to whom we o/er our heartfelt thanks.

1999: Augmented APP (A2P2) module for a posteriori probability calculation and channel parameter tracking
Abstract: The augmented a posteriori probability (APP) module, denoted by A/sup 2/P/sup 2/, comprises two mutually supporting algorithms: (1) a soft-input soft-output (SISO) APP module, adjusted to output edge metric information and (2) a recursive estimator for the channel parameters that benefits from this information at each step of the recursion. The thus-estimated parameters appropriately transform, in turn, the channel output signals that feed the SISO module. When applied to decoding a parallel concatenated convolutional code (PCCC) transmitted by binary phase-shift keying through a channel with frequency offset (0.08/T/sub s/ Hz) and phase jitter (0.23-rad RMS), concentrated at 0.01/T/sub s/ Hz, (T/sub s/-symbol duration), the degradation compared to fully coherent reception is a small fraction of 1 dB, without use of a preamble.

1999: Incremental frequency, amplitude and phase tracker (IFAPT) for coherent demodulation over fast flat fading channels
Abstract: The incremental frequency amplitude and phase tracker (IFAPT) is a recursive algorithm that estimates the parameters of piecewise-linear approximation to assumed continuous narrow-band signals. The parameters are amplitude, phase, and their respective slopes. The simple, recursive nature of IFAPT enables its direct interaction with recursive algorithms, such as the Viterbi and the BCJR in the APP SISO module, used for iteratively decoding concatenated codes. An augmented APP (A/sup 2/P/sup 2/)-module, containing IFAPT and BCJR algorithms, is here applied to iterative decoding serial concatenated convolutional codes under Rayleigh fading conditions with diversity reception. The bit-error rate under Rayleigh fading with dual diversity reception at E/sub bT//N/sub 0/=6 dB and f/sub d/T/sub s/=10/sup -2/ is 10/sup -4/, where E/sub bT/ is the total mean energy per bit in both diversity branches, f/sub d/ is the Doppler frequency, and T/sub s/ the symbol time.

1999: Maximum-likelihood estimation of phase and frequency of MPSK signals
Abstract: The asymptotically optimum simultaneous estimation of the phase and frequency of MPSK signals in AWGN channel is derived at low SNRs under the maximum-likelihood criterion. Its performance is superior to those of previously published methods, in particular at large frequency uncertainty.

1998: Feed-forward phase estimator and tracker under frequency uncertainty and phase noise
Abstract: The method and apparatus for tracking the frequency and the phase trajectory of a randomly time-varying signal (Bar-David and Taich 1996) are presented. It is useful for tracking signals of randomly time-varying phase, and is illustrated for phase-shift-keyed (MPSK) signals. The block-diagram of the tracker is presented and includes references to central points of the design. A comparison between the novel technique and the phase lock-loop approach is given using: acquisition time, loss of lock, slipping cycles and tracking error variance.

1998: Incremental frequency, amplitude and phase tracker (IFAPT) for coherent demodulation over fast flat fading channels
Abstract: IFAPT estimates the parameters of piece-wise linear approximation to assumed continuous narrow-band signals. Its simple, recursive nature enables direct interaction with recursive algorithms, such as the Viterbi and the BCJR in the APP SISO module, used for iteratively decoding concatenated codes. An augmented APP (A/sup 2/P/sup 2/)-module, containing IFAPT and BCJR algorithms is applied to iterative decoding serial concatenated convolutional codes under Rayleigh fading conditions, with diversity reception.

1998: Scattering function in delay and Doppler induced by motion in a dense multipath environment
Abstract: The delay spread profile for a dense multipath environment, modeled as a wide sense stationary uncorrelated scatterers (WSSUS) channel, has recently been derived for stationary transmitter-receiver pairs. The result shows the dependence of the profile on transmitter-receiver distance. In this paper we extend the analysis to the case that this distance is changing at constant velocity, inducing different Doppler shifts depending on the relative location of the scatterers. The scattering function is the power spectral density of the received signal, as a function of the delay and Doppler coordinates. It is of interest for the analysis of mobile transmission of systems in which the bandwidth is comparable to, or larger than, the reciprocal delay spread of the communication channel. For evaluation of narrow-band systems the delay-independent power spectral density, known as the Jakes model, is appropriate. When the delay variable is integrated out in the scattering function, the Jakes model is obtained. When the Doppler variable is integrated out, allowing for slight differences in the topological layouts of the two models, the scattering function reduces to the delay spread profile mentioned above.

1997: Temporally orthogonalized distance-multiplexed passive optical network.
Abstract: A new method, called temporal orthogonalization, for the cancellation of multiple reflections in distance-multiplexed all-optical passive tree networks is presented. The main advantage of this method over an existing method with Faraday rotators is its relatively simple implementation in the network nodes.

1997: ML estimation of phase and frequency of MPSK signals
Abstract: The optimum estimation of the phase and frequency of an MPSK signal is derived under the maximum likelihood criterion. From a general result, valid at low SNR, simple approximations are derived, which can be practically implemented.

1996: Barker code position modulation for high rate communication in the ISM bands
Abstract: A new modulation and transmission scheme, Barker code position modulation (BCPM), is introduced. This scheme is suitable for use either in frequency bands where spectral spreading is obligatory (such as the ISM bands), or in cases when it might be desirable due to other considerations. Methods to efficiently decode BCPM signals in the presence of intersymbol interference are also described. These algorithms may also be applied to decoding a class of orthogonal and quasi-orthogonal signals, and can be used to construct optimal and suboptimal receiver structures for systems which use these signals to communicate over dispersive channels.

1996: Barker code position modulation for high-rate communication in the ISM bands
Abstract: This paper describes a new modulation and transmission scheme known as Barker code position modulation (BCPM). It can be used either in frequency bands in which spectral spreading is obligatory (such as the industrial, scientific, and medical [ISM] bands) or in cases in which it might be desirable due to other considerations. The use of BCPM to communicate enables systems to increase the transmitted data rate considerably. In the example discussed in this paper, the data rate is quadrupled from 2 to 8 Mb/s. Algorithms to decode BCPM signals efficiently in the presence of inter-symbol interference are also described. These may be applied to decoding a class of orthogonal and quasi-orthogonal signals. They can also be used to construct optimal and suboptimal receiver structures for systems using such signals to communicate over dispersive channels.

1996: Delay spread profiles and receiver performance in a dense multipath environment
Abstract: The design and performance of indoor communication systems are strongly dependent on the delay spread in the impulse response of the channel. The delay spread is due to the abundance of the multipath reflections in the indoor environment. Judicious system design can derive benefit from the availability of the multipath signal to improve the system performance. Such potential improvement is due mainly to the fact that the various multipath components are very weakly dependent on each other, while fading, and a natural temporal diversity situation occurs. For system performance evaluation it is desirable to have an estimate of how the delay spread varies while the received power decreases with increasing transmitter-receiver distance. The simplest possible model that retains the essentials of a dense multipath environment is proposed and analyzed. It assumes that the direct path is blocked and that only scattered signals are received. A small ellipse of focal distance r/sub min/ about the transmitter and receiver is assumed to be free of scatterers. The scatterers are assumed to be Lambertian uncorrelated point-scatterers, uniformly distributed in 2-dimensional space. Secondary reflections are neglected and primary reflections are assumed not to be hampered by the presence of the other point scatterers. This is basically the wide sense stationary uncorrelated scatterers (WSSUS) model often used in communications analysis.

1995: Phase locked loop with extended range phase detector
Abstract: In many synchronous communications systems, reproduction of the carrier frequency of received signal and filtration of the phase jitter are important basic operations. For example, in Token Ring Data Networks, at each node the data and the carrier need to be recovered, the phase filtered, the data processed, encoded and retransmitted to the downstream node. For input signals impaired by phase wander due to thermal effects and by phase jitter, the aims are to acquire frequency and phase, to track frequency wander, to attenuate the phase jitter and to hold the tracking loop in lock-state, in order to keep the Bit Integrity Count (BIC). The requirements of jitter attenuation and maintenance of BIC lead to conflicting requirements when a conventional phase locked loop with conventional phase detector is used to achieve these aims. To overcome this conflict, a novel algorithm for phase detection has been proposed, and expanded and analyzed in this paper. It is referred to as the Extended Range Phase Detector (ERPD), designed to handle continuous inputs and reference signals with phase jitter, in presence of additive noise. It has an extended detection period of N/sub C/ times 2/spl pi/; N/sub C/ being design parameter. It includes, in addition to the CPD, a component which senses and counts full cycles of phase excursion. A PLL which contains a ERPD is called an Extended Range PLL (ERPLL). The ERPLL enables flexibility in design of the loop according to the applications, for owing to the ERPD, it is relieved of the interconnection between phase filtration ability and BIC maintenance. Its performance in terms of frequency and phase acquisition, phase filtration, immunity to additive noise and keeping of BIC is presented, based on analysis and simulation.

1995: Method and device for modulating position of spread spectrum code pulse
Abstract: PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To provide a means which modulates and demodulates communication signals for which spread spectrum is desirable. SOLUTION: Spread code generators 420 and 440 receive an appropriate delay value, either Ipos or Qpos, from an encoder 10 and generates spread spectrum words with respect to the center of a spread symbol period. A transmission spectrum is spread by coding at least one bit with the spread code words. When received code words pass through a filter having a characteristic matching that of the words, their peaks are detected in main lobes and the positive and negative main lobes respectively indicate binary '0' and '1'. Additional information is carried by modulating the center position of the code words in the symbol period. The center position of the code words is changed in eight positions and eight signal states can be utilized, and then, three additional bits are carried. A modulator 455 respectively modulates two different independent time shift spread spectrum code words with orthogonal carrier signals and a total of eight bits is carried in each symbol period.

1995: On collision resolution protocols for channels with long propagation delay
Abstract: Simulation results on the performance of multiple access protocols with long propagation delay are presented. It is shown that there are situations where slotted Aloha protocols with multiple transmissions of packets, provide better delay throughput characteristics than the classical slotted Aloha protocol with single transmission.

1995: Receiver for Spreizspektrumpulspositionsmodulation maturing dispersion compensation
Abstract: None

1995: The capacity of average and peak-power-limited quadrature Gaussian channels
Abstract: The capacity C(/spl rho//sub a/, /spl rho//sub p/) of the discrete-time quadrature additive Gaussian channel (QAGC) with inputs subjected to (normalized) average and peak power constraints, /spl rho//sub a/ and /spl rho//sub p/ respectively, is considered. By generalizing Smith's results for the scalar average and peak-power-constrained Gaussian channel, it is shown that the capacity achieving distribution is discrete in amplitude (envelope), having a finite number of mass-points, with a uniformly distributed independent phase and it is geometrically described by concentric circles. It is shown that with peak power being solely the effective constraint, a constant envelope with uniformly distributed phase input is capacity achieving for /spl rho//sub p//spl les/7.8 (dB 4.8 (dB) per dimension). The capacity under a peak-power constraint is evaluated for a wide range of /spl rho//sub p/, by incorporating the theoretical observations into a nonlinear dynamic programming procedure. Closed-form expressions for the asymptotic (low and large /spl rho//sub a/ and /spl rho//sub p/) capacity and the corresponding capacity achieving distribution and for lower and upper bounds on the capacity C(/spl rho//sub a/, /spl rho//sub p/) are developed. The capacity C(/spl rho//sub a/, /spl rho//sub p/) provides an improved ultimate upper bound on the reliable information rates transmitted over the QAGC with any communication systems subjected to both average and peak-power limitations, when compared to the classical Shannon formula for the capacity of the QAGC which does not account for the peak-power constraint. This is in particular important for systems that operate with restrictive (close to 1) average-to-peak power ratio /spl rho//sub a///spl rho//sub p/ and at moderate power values. >

1994: Direct differential detection of phase-shift-keyed signals: a local-oscillatorless DPSK receiver
Abstract: The phase-diversity mixing concept, originally applied in communication receivers to local-oscillator-aided reception, is here applied to the direct (i.e. local-oscillatorless) differential detection (D3) of phase-shift-keyed (PSK) transmissions. The received signal and its delay replica are first compared by means of a quadrature mixer, directly at the receiver front end, at the optical or microwave signal stage. The baseband phase-diversity signals thus obtained are linearly transformed in a baseband phase equaliser, and thus cancel out undesired, detrimental phase shifts which invariably occur in the wave-generating and wave-conveying components. The resulting D3PSK receiver is robust under variations in carrier frequency and in differential delay. Its development establishes coherent modulation methods, such as PSK and narrowband FSK, as viable alternatives to on/off keying, which at present is exclusively used in direct detection systems.

