Recent papers for Buks Eyal:

2023: Frequency-mixing spectroscopy of spins in diamond
Abstract: Frequency mixing processes in spin systems have a variety of applications in meteorology and in quantum data processing. Spin spectroscopy based on frequency mixing offers some advantages, including the ability to eliminate crosstalk between driving and detection. We experimentally explore nonlinear frequency mixing processes with negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy defects in diamond at low temperatures, and near level anti crossing. The experimental setup allows simultaneously applying magnetic driving in the longitudinal and transverse directions. Magnetic resonance detection is demonstrated using both Landau Zener St\"uckelberg interferometry and two-tone driving spectroscopy. The experimental results are compared with predictions of a theoretical analysis based on the rotating wave approximation.

2023: Prime comb lasing in a fiber ring at low temperatures
Abstract: We experimentally study a fiber loop laser with an integrated Erbium doped fiber (EDF). The output optical spectrum is measured as a function of the EDF temperature. We find that below a critical temperature of about 10K the measured optical spectrum exhibits a sequence of narrow and unequally-spaced peaks. Externally injected light and filtering are employed for tuning the peaks’ wavelengths. Operation of the device as an optical memory having storage time of about 20ms is demonstrated. The multimode lasing tunability can be exploited for novel applications in the fields of sensing, communication, and quantum data storage. c 2023 The Author(s)

2023: Partial Disentanglement in a Multipartite System
Abstract: A nonlinear extension to quantum theory giving rise to deterministic partial disentanglement between pairs of subsystems is explored. The extension is based on a modified Schrödinger equation having an added nonlinear term. To avoid conflicts with the principles of causality and separability, it is postulated that disentanglement is active only during the time when particles interact. A butterfly‐like effect is found near highly entangled multipartite vector states.

2023: Spontaneous Collapse by Entanglement Suppression
Abstract: A modified Schrödinger equation having an added nonlinear term, which gives rise to disentanglement, has been recently proposed. The process of quantum measurement is explored for the case of a pair of coupled spins. It is found that the deterministic time evolution generated by the modified Schrödinger equation mimics the process of wavefunction collapse. Added noise gives rise to stochasticity in the measurement process. Conflict with both principles of causality and separability can be avoided by postulating that the nonlinear term is active only during the time when subsystems interact. Moreover, in the absence of entanglement, all predictions of standard quantum mechanics are unaffected by the added nonlinear term.

2023: Tunable Multimode Lasing in a Fiber Ring
Abstract: We experimentally study a fiber loop laser with an integrated Erbium doped fiber (EDF). The output optical spectrum is measured as a function of the EDF temperature. We find that below a critical temperature of about 10K the measured optical spectrum exhibits a sequence of narrow and unequally-spaced peaks. Externally injected light and filtering are employed for tuning the peaks' wavelengths. Operation of the device as an optical memory having storage time of about 20 ms is demonstrated. The multimode lasing tunability can be exploited for novel applications in the fields of sensing, communication, and quantum data storage.

2022: High temperature spectroscopy of nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond
Abstract: We study spectroscopy of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond at high temperatures under high vacuum conditions. Spin resonances are studied using optical detection of magnetic resonance (ODMR), and optical spectroscopy is employed to study radiative transitions. Upon increasing the temperature the intensity of radiative decay in visible and infra-red decreased. In addition, the ODMR resonance frequencies were decreased, and the phonon line emission shifted to higher wavelengths. Fitting the measured intensity of photo-luminescence with the theoretical predictions of the Mott-Seitz model yields the value of 0 . 24 eV for the energy barrier associated with nonradiative decay.

2022: Disentanglement and a nonlinear Schrödinger equation
Abstract: We explore a nonlinear term that can be added to the Schrödinger equation without violating unitarity of the time evolution. We find that the added term suppresses entanglement, without affecting the evolution of any product state. The dynamics generated by the modified Schrödinger equation is explored for the case of a two-spin 1/2 system.

2022: High temperature spectroscopy of ensembles of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
Abstract: We study the spectroscopy of an ensemble of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond at high temperatures between room temperature and [Formula: see text] under high vacuum conditions. Spin resonances are studied using optical detection of magnetic resonance (ODMR), and optical spectroscopy is employed to study radiative transitions. Upon increasing the temperature, the intensity of radiative decay in visible and infrared decreased. In addition, the ODMR resonance frequencies were decreased, and the phonon line emission shifted to higher wavelengths. Density functional theory calculation of the zero-field splitting parameter ([Formula: see text]) revealed that thermal expansion is not enough to explain the shift in the ODMR frequencies. Fitting the measured intensity of photo-luminescence with the theoretical predictions of the Mott–Seitz model yields the value of [Formula: see text] for the energy barrier associated with nonradiative decay.

2022: Low temperature spectrum of a fiber loop laser
Abstract: None

2022: Tunable degree of polarization in a figure-8 fiber laser
Abstract: We experimentally study a fiber loop laser in a figure-8 configuration and explore the dependency of the degree of polarization on controlled parameters. To account for the experimental observations, a mapping is derived to evaluate the polarization time evolution. The nonlinearity induced by the Kerr effect and gain saturation gives rise to rich dynamics. We find that the degree of polarization can be increased by tuning the system into a region where the mapping has a locally stable fixed point.

2022: Thermalization and disentanglement with a nonlinear Schrödinger equation
Abstract: We study a recently proposed modified Schrödinger equation having an added nonlinear term. For the case where a stochastic term is added to the Hamiltonian, the fluctuating response is found to resemble the process of thermalization. Disentanglement induced by the added nonlinear term is explored for a system made of two coupled spins. A butterfly-like effect is found near fully entangled states of the spin–spin system. A limit cycle solution is found when one of the spins is externally driven.

2022: Polarization-selective magneto-optical modulation
Abstract: We study magneto-optical coupling in a ferrimagnetic sphere resonator made of yttrium iron garnet. We find that the resonator can be operated in the telecom band as a polarization-selective optical modulator. The input state of polarization (SOP) contributing to the Stokes sideband is orthogonal to the one contributing to the anti-Stokes sideband. In the region of single sideband modulation, the SOP of both sidebands is nearly orthogonal to the SOP of the incident light. Intermodulation gain can be employed in the nonlinear regime for amplification.

2021: Quantum measurement with recycled photons
Abstract: We study a device composed of an optical interferometer integrated with a ferri-magnetic sphere resonator (FSR). Magneto-optic coupling can be employed in such a device to manipulate entanglement between optical pulses that are injected into the interferometer and the FSR. The device is designed to allow measuring the lifetime of such macroscopic entangled states in the region where environmental decoherence is negligibly small. This is achieved by recycling the photons interacting with the FSR in order to eliminate the entanglement before a pulse exits the interferometer. The proposed experiment may provide some insight on the quantum to classical transition associated with a measurement process.

2021: The mean field approximation and disentanglement
Abstract: The mean field approximation becomes applicable when entanglement is sufficiently weak. We explore a nonlinear term that can be added to the Schrödinger equation without violating unitarity of the time evolution. We find that the added term suppresses entanglement, without affecting the evolution of any product state. The dynamics generated by the modified Schrödinger equation is explored for the case of a two-spin 1/2 system. We find that for this example the added term strongly affects the dynamics when the Hartmann Hahn matching condition is nearly satisfied.

2021: Optical interface for a hybrid magnon-photon resonator
Abstract: We study optical detection of magnetic resonance of a ferrimagnetic sphere resonator, which is strongly coupled to a microwave loop gap resonator. Optical fibers are employed for coupling the sphere resonator with light in the telecom band. We find that magnetic resonance can be optically detected in the region of anti-crossing between the loop gap and the ferrimagnetic resonances. By measuring the response time of the optical detection we rule out the possibility that microwave induced heating is responsible for the optical detectability.

2021: Optically detected flip-flops between different spin ensembles in diamond
Abstract: We employ the technique of optical detection of magnetic resonance to study dipolar interaction in diamond between nitrogen-vacancy color centers of different crystallographic orientations and substitutional nitrogen defects. We demonstrate optical measurements of resonant spin flips-flips (second Larmor line), and flip-flops between different spin ensembles in diamond. In addition, the strain coupling between the nitrogen-vacancy color centers and bulk acoustic modes is studied using optical detection. Our findings may help optimizing cross polarization protocols, which, in turn, may allow improving the sensitivity of diamond-based detectors.

2021: Thermal instability in a ferrimagnetic resonator strongly coupled to a loop-gap microwave cavity
Abstract: We study nonlinear response of a ferrimagnetic sphere resonator (FSR) strongly coupled to a microwave loop gap resonator (LGR). The measured response in the regime of weak nonlinearity allows the extraction of the FSR Kerr coefficient and its cubic damping rate. We find that there is a certain range of driving parameters in which the system exhibits instability. In that range, selfsustained modulation of the reflected power off the system is generated. The instability is attributed to absorption-induced heating of the FSR above its Curie temperature.

2021: Interaction of Microwave Coupled Ferrimagnetic Sphere with Figure-8 Laser
Abstract: Coupling both optical light and microwave with magnetic materials is a pursued area of research recently as it will lead to emerging quantum technologies. Although spin waves in magnetic materials can be strongly coupled to microwave radiation, effective coupling of optical light with spin wave in magnetic system is still a major challenge. We have set up a figure-8 laser and integrated it with a coupled ferrimagnetic sphere-microwave resonator. We demonstrate the modulation of optical spectrum of figure-8 laser pulse by interaction with the microwave coupled ferrimagnetic YIG sphere. We observe that spectral peaks of optical pulses are governed by cavity modes formed by the YIG element.

2021: J ul 2 01 2 Optomechanical Cavity with a Buckled Mirror
Abstract: We study an optomechanical cavity, in which a buckled suspended beam serves as a mirror. The mechanical resonance frequency of the beam obtains a minimum value near the buckling temperature. Contrary to the common case, in which self-excited oscillations of the suspended mirror are optically induced by injecting blue detuned laser light, in our case self-excited oscillations are observed with red detuned light. These observations are attributed to a retarded thermal (i.e. bolometric) force acting on the buckled mirror in the inwards direction (i.e. towards to other mirror). With relatively high laser power other interesting effects are observed including period doubling of self-excited oscillations and intermode coupling.

2021: Stability of the Grabert master equation
Abstract: We study the dynamics of a quantum system having Hilbert space of finite dimension dH. Instabilities are possible provided that the master equation governing the system’s dynamics contain nonlinear terms. Here we consider the nonlinear master equation derived by Grabert. The dynamics near a fixed point is analyzed by using the method of linearization, and by evaluating the eigenvalues of the Jacobian matrix. We find that all these eigenvalues are non-negative, and conclude that the fixed point is stable. This finding raises the question: under what conditions instability is possible in a quantum system having finite dH?

