Recent papers for Cohen Emanuel:

2024: Fano-Bode Cancellation-Bandwidth Limit in Full-Duplex Wireless Transceivers
Abstract: This paper explores the attainable cancellation bandwidth for practical TX-RX self-interference (SI) in simultaneous transmit and receive (STAR) RF front-ends. We present a passive, lumped feed-forward self-interference cancellation (SIC) network to neutralize a measured SI of a commercial single antenna interface. The proposed SIC transfer function is a reflection coefficient linearly related to the SI, enabling SIC filter design and analysis following impedance matching theory and techniques. Accordingly, the SIC circuit adheres to the Fano-Bode limit, where the TX-RX SIC is inversely proportional to the achieved bandwidth (BW). Lumped Chebyshev SIC equalizers enable efficient extraction of the Fano-Bode limit, ensuring low insertion loss, linear response, and on-chip integration. Furthermore, we establish that the rational function approximation of the SI sets a numerical SIC-BW bound corresponding to the SIC Chebyshev equalizer transfer function of the same order. We present a practical application of the proposed SIC design approach in a commercial single antenna circulator RF front-end around 5.3 GHz, which comprises a Wi-Fi antenna. The cancellation path includes commercial Wilkinson and quadrature hybrid SMA components, and two simulated $4^{th}$ order LC Chebyshev equalizer networks. The realizable SIC filter of this work achieves an insertion loss of 6 dB and enables 40 dB of TX-RX isolation over 300 MHz. The 40 dB numerical TX-RX isolation BW bound for the same order of the Chebyshev equalizer is 450 MHz, further validating the SIC-BW conclusions of this work.

2024: Non-magnetic four-port electronic circulators based on \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \usepackage{upgreek} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document}$$90^\circ $$\end
Abstract: None

2024: A Quadrature Balanced N-Path Receiver for Frequency Division Duplex With Thermal and Phase Noise Cancellation Under Antenna VSWR
Abstract: In this work, we propose a frequency division duplexing (FDD) transceiver front-end (TFE) capable of canceling both the transmitter (TX) noise and reciprocal mixing (RM), under antenna voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) variations. The TFE is composed of a quadrature balanced <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N$ </tex-math></inline-formula>-path receiver (QBNR) with the addition of a coupled auxiliary path to cancel reflected RM from the antenna. A discrete implementation incorporating two-port <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N$ </tex-math></inline-formula>-path (TPNP) filters manufactured in TSMC CMOS 65 nm is shown. Measurements of the proposed TFE show more than 27-dB TX noise cancellation, with NF of 6–7 dB in the presence of a 5-dBm modulated TX blocker, under VSWR of 2:1 and equal thermal and RM noise floors of −147 dBm/Hz, with power consumption of 57 mW at a 1.5-GHz local oscillator (LO) frequency.

2024: Analysis and Design of Integrated Quadrature Balanced N-Path Transceivers for Frequency Division Duplex Systems
Abstract: We present a fully integrated and tunable transceiver for frequency-division duplex (FDD) and half duplex (HD) operation based on a quadrature balanced N-path mixer-first receiver (MFRX) architecture. The quadrature balanced N-path transceiver (QBNT) comprises a quadrature hybrid (QH) and two identical MFRXs, presenting a short circuit and a matched impedance at the transmitter (TX) and receiver (RX) bands, respectively. The proposed transceiver achieves low TX to antenna loss while maintaining high RX linearity, and is capable of cancelling both TX noise and reciprocal mixing (RM) at the RX under antenna voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) variations. Analysis and design equations of the QBNT are shown, and the design considerations of each block are presented. A channel estimation algorithm is proposed to cope with the frequency-dependant antenna reflection QH response. An integrated QBNT prototype was fabricated in TSMC 65nm CMOS process as a proof of concept, occupying an active area of $2.96 mm^{2}$ . The QBNT operates at the frequency range between 0.75-2 GHz with a TX-RX offsets above 200 MHz. It achieves RX noise figure (NF) of 2.8-5.8 dB, RXB1dB of 18 dBm, TX-ANT OIP3 of 27.3 dBm and 29.5 dBm in FDD and HD modes, respectively. The demonstrated FDD operation of the QBNT shows that in our implementation we achieve a simultaneous 6.5 dBm TX output power and an RX EVM of −40.8 dB after digital cancellation. The RX and TX (at OP1dB) consume DC power of 82–130 mW and 254 mW, respectively.

2024: A Bootstrapped 250-nm GaN MMIC N-Path Filter With a 31 dBm In-Band P1dB
Abstract: This work presents a second-order parallel N-path bandpass filter implemented in 250-nm depletion-mode GaN process leveraging an integrated baseband bootstrapping technique for high-in-band linearity performance. The bootstrap circuit improves in-band compression by 20 dB by preventing the opening of the gate parasitic diode of the GaN switch. The filter achieves in-band P1dB of 31 dBm for a 26-MHz bandwidth around 1-GHz center frequency along with 2-dB insertion loss between 0.3-1.8 GHz with an out-of-band rejection of 16 dB. The chip occupies an area of 9.2 mm2 and consumes 4.9 Watt.

2024: A Balanced Distributed Cascode Power Amplifier With an Integrated Chebyshev Load Balancer for Full-Duplex Wireless Operation
Abstract: This work proposes a fully integrated transmitter front end based on a balanced distributed cascode power amplifier (BDC-PA) and a passive second-order reconfigurable reflective self-interference cancellation (SIC) filter for full-duplex wireless applications. The balanced topology provides inherent passive transmit-receive (TX-RX) isolation complemented by the passive SIC filter, which accounts for the signal, noise, and nonlinearity components of the direct TX-RX leakages and the reflections from a commercial Wi-Fi antenna. A digital cancellation technique is used to enhance the overall cancellation. A front-end chip prototype fabricated in TSMC’s 65-nm CMOS process operating between 5 and 6 GHz and occupying the area of 1.2 mm2 achieves 19.5-dBm $P {_{\text {sat}}}$ with 31% peak PAE, 17-dBm OP1dB, and 8–10-dB RX noise figure (NF). The analog SIC achieves 40 dB of TX-RX isolation, and an overall cancellation of 78 dB is observed using the digital algorithm. The TX achieves an error-vector magnitude (EVM) of −30 dB at 10-dB power backoff using a 20-MHz Wi-Fi OFDM signal without DPD.

2023: A Full Duplex RF Front End Employing an Electrical Balanced Duplexer and a Chebyshev Load-Balancing Filter
Abstract: This paper presents a new Chebyshev load-balance (LB) circuit for electrical-balanced RF front-ends targeted for simultaneous transmit-receive (STR) operation. TX reflection of a commercial Wi-Fi antenna with near 3:1 VSWR and direct TX leakage of a commercial quadrature-hybrid are considered and cancelled concurrently in simulations and measurements. We analyze the reflective LB as the RF front-end optimal load and propose a theoretically lossless impedance-matching network that achieves self-interference cancellation (SIC) over more than ± 5 % bandwidth relative to the carrier. A PCB design with two transmission lines and lumped RLC elements is realized to demonstrate the potential of the architecture, achieving > 25 dB of total TX-RX isolation over 300 MHz around 2.65 GHz where the antenna reflection is 7 dBr. This is the first published work that reports cancellation of such a reflective antenna employing a low-cost LB circuit. The proposed Chebyshev LB is theoretically superior to the networks proposed in previous papers.

2023: Direct Learning Neural Network Digital Predistortion Using Backpropagation Through a Memory Power Amplifier Model
Abstract: This work presents a new direct learning for a neural network based digital predistortion linearizer using backpropagation through a memory power amplifier. The learning method is compared with indirect learning among other methods. The proposed learning methods are evaluated on a wideband CMOS power amplifier using a 160 MHz 802.11ax WiFi signal with an 11.5 dB peak-to-average power ratio and a center frequency of 1 GHz at 8.2 dBm average transmit power. The direct learning using memory backpropagation shows superior performance to other proposed learning methods, achieving a correction of 10.8 dB to the error vector magnitude to -39 dB EVM.

2023: A Software-Defined 1TX/2RX FDD Transceiver Employing Frequency-Selective Dual-Band Self-Interference Cancellation
Abstract: This paper presents a software-defined 1TX/2RX frequency-division duplex (FDD) transceiver front-end that allows simultaneous transmit-and-receive operation in close proximity wireless channels using frequency-selective dual-band self-interference cancellation (SIC). The proposed front-end includes a tunable RF tap and a multi-tap baseband FIR filter to suppress the Tx self-interference in the Tx band and in two symmetric adjacent channels where reception takes place, respectively. The FIR filter’s weights are computed using a dual-band least squares algorithm, and closed-form expressions are derived in detail. Measurement results from an FDD front-end prototype show a total of 90 dB cancellation in both Rx bands simultaneously, with 40 dB of passive isolation due to the leakage channel’s attenuation and 50 dB by the active FIR canceller.

2023: A Distributed Cascode Power Amplifier with an Integrated Analog SIC Filter for Full-Duplex Wireless Operation in 65 nm CMOS
Abstract: In this work, we propose a fully integrated transmitter front-end based on a balanced distributed cascode power amplifier and a passive second-order reconfigurable reflective self-interference cancellation (SIC) filter for full-duplex wireless applications. The balanced topology provides inherent passive transmit-receive (TX-RX) isolation complemented by the passive SIC filter, which accounts for the signal, noise, and nonlinearity components of the direct TX-RX leakages and the reflections from a commercial Wi-Fi antenna. A front-end chip prototype fabricated in TSMC's 65 nm CMOS process operating between 5–6 GHz and occupying the area of 1.2 mm2achieves 19.5 dBm Psat with 31% peak PAE, 17 dBm OP1dB, and 8–10 dB RX noise figure, along with 40 dB of TX-RX isolation and −30 dB TX EVM at 10 dB power backoff using a 20 MHz Wi-Fi OFDM signal without DPD.

2023: Theoretical Bounds of the Self-Interference Cancellation-Bandwidth Integral in Full Duplex RF Front Ends
Abstract: This paper studies the behavior of lumped self-interference cancellation (SIC) filters in simultaneous transmit-receive (STR) RF front ends. The crux that enables a different approach in this work for finding an optimal network solution is converting the SIC circuit design flow into an equivalent impedance-matching problem. As a result, we analyze a reflective SIC filter that complies with electric-balance duplexers utilizing known techniques. Bode, Fano, Matthaei, and others studied lumped network theory considerations and devised methodical steps for maximizing the impedance-matching bandwidth for reactive loads. Accordingly, a systematic approach that considers the analysis of the SIC-Bandwidth mutual relationship, and the optimal lumped networks, is detailed in this work. We indicate that the Chebyshev band-pass filter can provide optimal and lossless SIC filter performance, which is crucial for the overall STR performance. The realistic RF front-end in this work, which includes a simulated quadrature hybrid, and a measured Wi-Fi antenna with VSWR of 3:1, achieves > 40 dB of TX-RX isolation over 200 MHz around 5.5 GHz, utilizing a second order filter that employs only two realizable inductors.

2023: A mm-Wave Blocker-Tolerant Receiver Achieving <4 dB NF and −3.5 dBm B1dB in 65-nm CMOS
Abstract: Digital beam-forming requires highly linear receivers (RXs), as null steering is performed only in digital baseband (BB). This paper presents a highly linear RX, with a high out-of-band (OOB) blocker tolerance without sacrificing performance or power, utilizing a highly linear inverter low-noise amplifier (LNA), followed by an N-path mixer with tunable filtering properties and a BB transimpedance (TIA) amplifier for linearity enhancement. The N-path mixer design trade-offs are discussed, and several linear LNA topologies are presented and compared. A chip prototype was manufactured in a TSMC 65 nm CMOS process. In our implementation, a <4 dB noise figure (NF) is achieved, with an RX gain of 40 dB, in-band (IB) IIP3 of -20 dBm and -3.5 dBm BldB at a 500 MHz offset, while occupying an active area of 1.62 mm2 and drawing a total power of 76.8 mW. at a frequency range of 22–31 GHz.

2023: High-Power Tunable FDD Front-End Employing a Balanced CMOS N-Path Receiver and Evanescent-Mode Cavity Filters
Abstract: A single-antenna, frequency-tunable FDD front-end supporting simultaneous transmit (TX) and receive (RX) operation with high power handling capabilities and low TX and RX losses is presented. The system comprises a balanced CMOS N-path receiver in series with tunable evanescent-mode filters, and leverages frequency-selective reflectivity and matching for quadrature signal construction and self-interference cancellation at corresponding ports of interest. A measured 65 nm CMOS receiver prototype with manufactured cavity filters demonstrated 38 dBm blocker tolerance (B1dB) around 1 GHz at 100 MHz TX−RX spacing with no RX EVM degradation, < 0.4 dB TX insertion loss, and 3.5−4.5 dB RX NF over 0.9−1.8 GHz tunable frequency range.

2023: A Wideband CMOS Power Amplifier With 52% Peak PAE Employing Resistive Shunt Feedback for Sub-6 GHz 5G Applications
Abstract: This letter presents the design and implementation of a wideband power amplifier (PA) for sub-6 GHz 5G wireless applications. The PA employs a Class-B biased cascode topology with resistive shunt–shunt feedback for wideband response, good linearity, and simultaneous input and output matching. The design equations and stability considerations are laid out and are followed by experimental validation using both static and dynamic measurements. The chip prototype was fabricated in TSMC’s 65 nm CMOS technology. The PA operates from a 3.3 V supply and delivers a maximum power gain of 22.5 dB with a bandwidth of 2.17 GHz between 0.33 and 2.5 GHz, a peak output power of 21.5 dBm, and 52.4% power-added efficiency (PAE) at 1 GHz with >35% PAE over the operating frequency range. In the measurement of an orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) signal with 20 MHz modulation bandwidth and 10 dB peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) at the average output power of 11 dBm around 1 GHz, EVM of −39 dB was achieved using memoryless polynomial-based digital predistortion (DPD).

2022: Analysis and Modeling of N-Path Circuits Peak Frequency Shift Caused by Switch Parasitics
Abstract: The N-path circuit serves both as a mixer and as a radio frequency (RF) filter. Certain performance aspects, such as noise, linearity, and out-of-band (OOB) rejection dictate large switches size. However, such increment raises the value of the parasitic RF capacitance, which causes further in-band (IB) loss and peak frequency shift. In this brief, we derive simplified equations for the assessment of the mentioned non-ideal properties, using the novel linear periodically time-variant (LPTV) state-space analysis, by making derivations and approximations based on realistic circuit parameters. We present closed-form equations for the voltage gain peak frequency shift and a revised linear time-invariant (LTI) model for the assessment of $S_{11}$ dip frequency shift.

2022: An Integrated Reconfigurable SAW-Less Quadrature Balanced N-Path Transceiver for Frequency-Division and Half Duplex Wireless
Abstract: In this work, we propose a fully integrated transceiver for frequency-division and half duplex wireless operation based on a quadrature balanced N-path mixer-first architecture. The quadrature balanced N-path transceiver (QBNT) comprises a quadrature hybrid and two identical mixer-first receivers (MFRXs), presenting a short circuit and 50 ohms matching in the transceiver (TX) and receiver (RX) bands, respectively. The TX power reflects at the MFRXs' interface and adds up in-phase at the antenna, while the RX signal from the antenna is reconstructed in phase in digital baseband, with the TX noise cancelled at RX regardless of antenna voltage standing wave ratio. QBNT equations and design considerations are shown. An integrated QBNT prototype was fabricated in TSMC 65nm CMOS process as a proof of concept, occupying an active area of 2.96 mm2, The QBNT operates at the frequency range between 0.75-2 GHz with a TX-RX offset above 200 MHz. It achieves RX noise figure (NF) of 2.8-5.8 dB, RXB1dB of 18 dBm, TX-ANT OIP3 of 27.3 dBm and 29.5 dBm in FDD and half duplex (HD) modes, respectively. The RX and TX (at OP1dB) consume DC power of 82–130 m Wand 254 m W, respectively.

2022: A Four-Element 5–6-GHz CMOS Quadrature Balanced Full-Duplex MIMO Transmitter With Wideband Digital Interference Cancellation
Abstract: This work presents a 5–6 GHz full-duplex (FD) multiple-input and multiple-output (MIMO) transmitter front-end based on a quadrature balanced power amplifier (QBPA) topology and wideband digital interference cancellation. The proposed architecture benefits from low implementation complexity and is compatible with MIMO scaling with no additional hardware and power consumption penalties. The QBPA chip was fabricated in 180 nm CMOS and assembled on a four-element PCB MIMO array. The system was measured using a 320 MHz OFDM signal with 11 dB PAPR at 4 dBm TX power per element. 44 dB of combined self and cross-interference (XI) cancellation in the RF domain is demonstrated while requiring only −17 dBm of canceling signal power, along with −32 dB of TX EVM and 0.7 and 1.8 dB of TX and RX insertion losses (ILs), respectively. The standalone QBPA chip delivers $P_{\text {sat}}$ and peak PAE of >19.3 dBm and >31%, respectively, between 5 and 6 GHz.

2022: A Quadrature Hybrid Transimpedance-Amplifier-Based Mixer-First Receiver
Abstract: A mixer-first receiver (MFRX) that breaks the baseband (BB) input linearity, matching, and noise trade-off is proposed. The MFRX is composed of a quadrature hybrid and two identical transimpedance (TIA) based MFRXs, with a noiseless antenna matching achieved by placing a termination at the hybrid's isolated port. The receiver (RX) performance is analyzed utilizing a linear time-invariant (LTI) model and a comparison to previous approaches is presented. A TSMC 65nm CMOS design is presented as a proof of concept. Simulation results show superior performance over voltage-mode topologies of MFRXs in merits of in-band (IB) and out-of-band (OOB) linearity at the cost of power and area, with almost no noise penalty.

2022: A 0.15 um Depletion Mode GaN Bootstrapped N-path Filter with 23dBm Inband Blocker Handling
Abstract: This paper suggests linearity improvement of N-path filters, using a Depletion mode (D-mode) 0.15um GaN process. GaN has a high breakdown voltage which can support large powers. By simulating one port 4-path filter with 1 GHz LO frequency and 1.001 GHz RF input frequency (1MHz baseband), integrated with BB node bootstrap circuit based on LO and BB combination, we demonstrate a high-Q filter with 14MHz bandwidth and 14dB rejection ratio for the inband (IB) blocker of 23dBm. We also show a high linearity performance by achieving IB P1dB of 26dBm, which is 14dB higher than the same N-path without bootstrap.

2022: A Four-Port Circulating Duplexer for Simultaneous Transmit Receive Wireless Operation
Abstract: This article presents a new four-port electronic circulating duplexer (CD) that enables similar functionality to that of a four port circulator. The proposed CD is formed by connecting a quadrature hybrid (QH) and a quasi-circulating quadrature hybrid (QCQH). We derive the S-matrix of the CD by employing Mason's rule and verify the analytical results by simulations in which the 90° NRPS of the QCQH is implemented as a behavioral 8-Path NRPS. The functionality of CD enables implementation as a simultaneous transmit-receive (STR) RF front end that includes transmit (TX), antenna (ANT), self-interference cancellation (SIC) and receive (RX) dedicated ports. Measurements of a CD with a commercial QH connected to a QCQH that employs 65-nm NMOS 4-path NRPS integrated on PCB, show a 1.6 dB TX-to-ANT, less than 2 dB ANT-SIC and 2.9 dB SIC-to-RX losses over 40MHz bandwidth. TX-RX and TX-SIC isolation are also measured showing 18 and 13.5 dB respectively. A 5 dBm modulated TX signal at 970 MHz achieved a total isolation of 55 dB with active SIC injection along with a TX EVM of −39 dB.

