2024: Exploring career choice and retention among engineering undergraduate students and systems engineers: A gender perspective
Abstract: The underrepresentation of women in engineering is a significant concern. This study applies the social cognitive theory and the social career cognitive theory (SCCT) to investigate gender differences in engineering career choices. We examined reasons given by 19 systems engineers and 330 undergraduate engineering students for choosing engineering and categorizing them according to SCCT themes. We compared the distribution of reasons across themes and categories by career stage and gender. For engineers, the category self-efficacy correlated significantly with challenges and opportunities and current job suitability categories, and women engineers cited challenges mainly with work-life balance and the gender glass ceiling. Undergraduate students cited personal reasons more frequently than environmental ones, with behavioral reasons being the least common. The extended SCCT model includes the categories challenges and opportunities and current job suitability within the behavioral theme, with the latter pertaining specifically to career retention. This research the set of provides insights into gender-dependent engineering career choice and retention by expanding the set of SCCT categories.

2024: Enhancing conceptual models with computational capabilities: A methodical approach to executable integrative modeling
Abstract: The lack of a common executable modeling framework that integrates systems engineering, software design, and other engineering domains is a major impediment to seamless product development processes. Our research aims to overcome this system‐software modeling gap by integrating computational, software‐related, and model execution capabilities into OPM‐based conceptual modeling, resulting in a holistic unified executable quantitative‐qualitative modeling framework. The gap is overcome via a Methodical Approach to Executable Integrative Modeling—MAXIM, an extension of OPM ISO 19450:2015, a standardization approvement given on 2015. We present the principles of MAXIM and demonstrate its operation within OPCloud—a web‐based collaborative conceptual OPM modeling framework. As a proof‐of‐concept, a model of an Airbus civil aircraft landing gear braking system is constructed and executed. Using MAXIM, engineers from five domains can collaborate at the very early phase of the system development and jointly construct a unified model that fuses qualitative and quantitative aspects of the various disciplines. This case study illustrates an important first step towards satisfying the critical and growing need to integrate systems engineering with software computations into a unified framework that enables a smooth transition from high‐level architecting to detailed, discipline‐oriented design. Such a framework is a key to agile yet robust future development of software‐intensive systems.

2024: Assessing Engineering Students’ Systems Thinking and Modeling Based on Their Online Learning
Abstract: Contribution: Model-based learning improves systems thinking (ST) based on students’ prior knowledge and gender. Relations were found between textual, visual, and mixed question types and student achievements. Background: ST is essential to judicious decision-making and problem-solving. Undergraduate students can be taught to apply better ST, and analysis of their online systems modeling processes can improve their ST. Research Questions: 1) What is the effect, if any, of online learning on the ST and conceptual modeling skill levels of undergraduate engineering students? 2) What differences are there, if any, between students’ ST, conceptual modeling, and scores in textual, visual, and mixed question types based on their prior knowledge levels? and 3) Are there any gender differences in student performance, and if so, what are they? Methodology: The research participants were 157 undergraduate engineering students who took part in a mandatory second-year course, during which data were collected and analyzed quantitatively. Findings: Students with disparate prior knowledge differed significantly from each other in their overall ST mean score and in the mean scores of the various question types. Gender differences in ST and its relative improvement were also found.

2023: Fostering engineering and science students’ and teachers’ systems thinking and conceptual modeling skills
Abstract: None

2023: Model‐based diagnosis with FTTell: Diagnosing early pediatric failure to thrive
Abstract: Pediatric Failure To Thrive (FTT), commonly presented in young infants, is often not diagnosed on time or missed. Lack of timely infants’ diagnosis can adversely affect their growth and development. We have developed and successfully tested FTTell—a model‐based system for diagnosing FTT during common pediatric follow up. FTTell is an executable model‐based diagnostic tool for diagnosing FTT. We use Object‐Process Methodology extended with Methodical Approach to Executable Integrative Modeling, enabling qualitative considerations and quantitative parameters of the problem to be modeled jointly, enabling FTT diagnosis. The validity of FTTell is demonstrated on data collected from 100 infants. For each child, FTTell calculates a score indicating FTT presence and severity. We compared the systems’ outcomes to a pediatric gastroenterologist expert severity assessment. Of the 100 infants, the system initially yielded 82% validity. Reassessment improved it to 87% validity. Pediatricians may miss infants with FTT, especially in borderline cases. FTTell can effectively serve as a FTT diagnosis tool, boosting pediatricians’ correct diagnosis and proper investigation. Our cloud‐based system can be continuously updated with the latest research findings. FTTell can diagnose FTT and its severity in infants with 87% accuracy. Pediatricians can use this model‐based standardized approach to improve their FTT diagnosis and provide appropriate timely intervention when needed. Model‐based diagnosis is a novel application of conceptual models, and OPM ISO 19450 is especially fit for this purpose. The model‐based diagnosis approach can be extended beyond medicine to diagnosing problems with engineered, technological, and socio‐technical systems.

2023: Model‐based standards authoring: ISO 15288 as a case in point
Abstract: ISO/IEC/IEEE 15288:2015 is one of the most fundamental systems engineering international standards. In this work, the major system lifecycle processes specified in 15288 and, equally importantly, the objects interacting through them, are modeled meticulously using OPM ISO 19450. The conceptual model, based on this standard's text, reflects the implied authors’ intent, bringing up ambiguities that arise from the informality of natural language text and reference to related figures. The resulting OPM model is an exact, formal, and detailed expression of the processes and related objects in the first part of 15288, making it machine interpretable. The gaps discovered during the modeling process are testimony to the value of the model‐based standards authoring approach and the centrality of a formal yet humanly accessible model as the underlying backbone of international standards and key technical documents in general.

2023: Investigating Chemistry Teachers’ Assessment Knowledge via a Rubric for Self-Developed Tasks in a Food and Sustainability Context
Abstract: We investigated the competence of in- and pre-service chemistry teachers and teacher mentors in designing sustainability- and systems-oriented online tasks for their students. Using a dedicated rubric, we evaluated their assessment knowledge (AK) as reflected in the tasks they had developed. The rubric is based on four attributes: integration of sustainability and chemistry, diversity of thinking skills, the variety of system aspects, and diversity of visual representations. Implementing a qualitative case study approach, we tracked the professional development of three purposefully sampled teachers in addition to using the rubric to score their tasks. Combining the rubric scorings and the qualitative investigation via feedback questionnaire revealed new insights. Besides the teachers’ content and pedagogical knowledge, the case studies’ context and relevance to the teachers were found central to their ability to assess learning. This research contributes to the theoretical understanding of AK of teachers with different backgrounds and professional experiences. The methodological contribution stems from the analysis of self-developed tasks based on a designated rubric, which should be further validated.

2023: Developing and assessing pre- and in-service science and engineering teachers’ systems thinking and modeling skills through an asynchronous online course
Abstract: Systems thinking and modeling are two critical 21st-century skills that teachers and educators are expected to impart to students, and students are expected to acquire and master them as part of their preparation to become literate citizens of a society and environment that is becoming ever more complex. Systems thinking is a thought process in which assumptions about interactions among interconnected elements of a system or a phenomenon can help predict the system’s behavior, outcomes, and in the case of human-made artifacts, the value to its beneficiaries. Conceptual modeling involves the simultaneous visual and textual representation of one’s ideas about a phenomenon or system in science or engineering. The qualitative study described here aimed to examine the effect of an online interdisciplinary asynchronous course on the development of systems thinking and conceptual modeling skills among pre- and in-service science and engineering teachers. Engaging in a qualitative case study with an exploratory orientation, we investigated how science and engineering teachers and teacher educators coped with (a) online learning of conceptual modeling and systems thinking using Object-Process Methodology in a food and sustainability context, and (b) developing an online assignment for teaching those skills to their students and assessing them. Research tools included the online assignment that the participants developed, dedicated rubrics for analyzing their assignments, accounting for use of modeling, media, visualization, micro–macro-process scientific understanding levels, and a mix of closed- and open-ended questions. Additionally, the participants’ reflections were analyzed to characterize their sense of self-efficacy and academic progression. We characterize five teacher-developed assignment cases along with the related teachers’ reflections, which exposed the benefits they had gained from the online course, as well as the systems thinking and modeling challenges they had faced. Analysis of the effect of the course with emphasis on the final task reveals that this approach is effective for developing the systems thinking and modeling skills of the teachers and serves as a catalyst for their professional development. The study offers a methodological contribution by providing a basis for evaluating teachers’ assessment knowledge and skills using a six attributes rubric.

2023: I‐SHARE – INCOSE Systems Heuristics Application Repository: Sharing Systems Engineering Knowhow and Experience
Abstract: Systems engineering (SE) is a transdisciplinary discipline that links all the engineering disciplines involved in defining a system throughout its lifecycle. As such, SE involves heuristics to a significant extent. A heuristic relates to a formulation based on experts' experience serving as a guide in the investigation or solution of a problem. To be usable, heuristics should be memorable and pithy. A team of INCOSE Fellows created the INCOSE Systems Heuristics Application Repository, or I‐SHARE in short, in which over 600 SE‐related heuristics are curated and shared, covering subjects that include SE competencies, lifecycle stages, expertise, operational domains, and system attributes. In this paper, we describe the I‐SHARE, the motivation and stages of its creation and compilation, and ways through which this knowledge base can be an invaluable service to the SE community.

2023: Corrigendum: Developing and assessing pre- and in-service science and engineering teachers' systems thinking and modeling skills through an asynchronous online course
Abstract: COPYRIGHT © 2023 Peretz, Dori and Dori. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms. Corrigendum: Developing and assessing preand in-service science and engineering teachers’ systems thinking and modeling skills through an asynchronous online course

2022: Modeling with Real-Time Informative Feedback: Implementing and Evaluating a New Massive Open Online Course Component
Abstract: None

2022: The Future of Health and Science: Envisioning an Intelligent HealthScience System
Abstract: None

2021: Improving Conceptual Modeling with Object-Process Methodology Stereotypes
Abstract: As system complexity is on the rise, there is a growing need for standardized building blocks to increase the likelihood of systems’ success. Conceptual modeling is the primary activity required for engineering systems to be understood, designed, and managed. Modern modeling languages enable describing the requirements and design of systems in a formal yet understandable way. These languages use stereotypes to standardize, clarify the model semantics, and extend the meaning of model elements. An Internet of things (IoT) system serves as an example to show the significant contributions of stereotypes to model construction, comprehension, error reduction, and increased productivity during design, simulation, and combined hardware–software system execution. This research emphasizes stereotype features that are unique to Object-Process Methodology (OPM) ISO 19450, differentiating it from stereotypes in other conceptual modeling languages. We present the implementation of stereotypes in OPCloud, an OPM modeling software environment, explore stereotype-related problems, propose solutions, and discuss future enhancements.

2021: The Model Fidelity Hierarchy: From Text to Conceptual, Computational, and Executable Model
Abstract: Model-based systems engineering applies a variety of model kinds, each with its own fidelity and exactness level. Based on experience we gained while modeling an aircraft landing gear with the objective of numerically defining its various parameters that fulfill engineering and safety requirements, we present the model fidelity hierarchy (MFH). At this hierarchy's bottom, vaguest level, is spoken language, followed by free written text, conceptual model, its augmentation with computational capabilities, and finally an executable version of that model. Using object-process methodology (OPM ISO 19450) with its computational extension, we present this hierarchy by describing the landing gear model as it progresses through these levels, and the kinds of mistakes revealed while transitioning from one level to the next. The MFH, identified and defined in this article, is made possible by using OPM, which enables these level transitions to be information lossless, providing the most value while requiring the minimal effort. The ability of this continuous, seamless modeling approach to detect errors with increasing accuracy justifies our OPM approach, as errors revealed in this early system lifecycle stage are exponentially less costly to correct than those revealed downstream.

2021: Gaining Insights into Conceptual Models: A Graph-Theoretic Querying Approach
Abstract: Modern complex systems include products and services that comprise many interconnected pieces of integrated hardware and software, which are expected to serve humans interacting with them. As technology advances, expectations of a smooth, flawless system operation grow. Model-based systems engineering, an approach based on conceptual models, copes with this challenge. Models help construct formal system representations, visualize them, understand the design, simulate the system, and discover design flaws early on. Modeling tools can benefit tremendously from querying capabilities that enable gaining deep insights into system aspects that direct model observations do not reveal. Querying mechanisms can unveil and explain cause-and-effect phenomena, identify central components, and estimate impacts or risks associated with changes. Being connected networks of system elements, models can be effectively represented as graphs, to which queries are applied. Capitalizing on established graph-theoretic algorithms to solve a large variety of problems can elevate the modeling experience to new levels. To utilize this rich set of capabilities, one must convert the model into a graph and store it in a graph database with no significant loss of information. Applying the appropriate algorithms and translating the query response back to the original intelligible and meaningful diagrammatic and textual model representation is most valuable. We present and demonstrate a querying approach of converting Object-Process Methodology (OPM) ISO 19450 models into graphs, storing them in a Neo4J graph database, and performing queries that answer complex questions on various system aspects, providing key insights into the modeled system or phenomenon and helping to improve the system design.

2021: Designing and Developing OPCloud, an OPM-based Collaborative Software Environment, in a Mixed Academic and Industrial Setting: An Experience Report
Abstract: None

2021: Object-Process Methodology as an Alternative for 1 Human Factors Task Analysis
Abstract: ion Hierarchy (AH) is the first stage of the Cognitive Work Analysis method developed by Vicente (1999). 443 The goal of AH is to identify means-ends relationships and task constraints. AH usually describes the system at five 444 levels, proceeding from abstract to physical. It starts with the overall purpose, values and functions, and proceeds 445 downward to physical functions and objects (Xiao et al., 2008). Means-ends links in an AH model show how 446 individual components (means) influence the overall abstract objectives (ends) of the system. Usually, a set of 447 resources or constraints at one level support functions, value or purpose at a higher level (Lintern, 2013). Thus, each 448 link reveals the resources or constraints that one must use at some level to satisfy resources or constraints at the 449 preceding level. 450 Fig. 16 shows a simplified AH of SSRMS EVA Operations. One limitation of AH is that real-world systems have 451 many low-level components. Hence, the AH representation has many lines between these levels crossing each other, 452 making the representation visually complex and difficult to grasp for anyone and especially for uninitiated 453 practitioners. The diagram can be simplified by aggregating elements into broader categories at each level, making the 454 model visually simpler, but this dilutes the information content, reducing the usefulness of AH analysis. 455

2021: Object-Process Methodology as an Alternative to Human Factors Task Analysis
Abstract: Objective We define and demonstrate the use of OPM-TA—a model-based task analysis (TA) framework that uses object-process methodology (OPM) ISO 19450 as a viable alternative to traditional TA techniques. Background A variety of different TA methods exist in human factors engineering, and several of them are often applied successively for a broad task representation, making it difficult to follow. Method Using OPM-TA, we modeled how an International Space Station (ISS) astronaut would support extravehicular activities using the existing robotic arm workstation with a new control panel and an electronic procedure system. The modeling employed traditional TA methods and the new OPM-TA approach, enabling a comparison between them. Results While the initial stages of modeling with OPM-TA follow those of traditional TA, OPM-TA modeling yields an executable and logically verifiable model of the entire human–robot system. Both OPM’s hierarchical set of diagrams and the equivalent, automatically generated statements in a subset of natural language text specify how objects and processes relate to each other at increasingly detailed levels. The graphic and textual OPM modalities specify the system’s architecture, which enables its function and benefits its users. To verify the model logical correctness model, we executed it using OPM’s simulation capability. Conclusion OPM-TA was able to unify traditional TA methods and expand their capabilities. The formal yet intuitive OPM-TA approach fuses and extends traditional TA methods, which are not amenable to simulation. It therefore can potentially become a widely used means for TA and human–machine procedure development and testing.

2021: Assessing Novelty and Systems Thinking in Conceptual Models of Technological Systems
Abstract: <italic>Contribution:</italic> The authors present a methodology for assessing both novelty and systems thinking, as expressed in the same conceptual models constructed by graduate engineering students. <italic>Background:</italic> Companies worldwide seek employees with creativity and systems thinking, since solving design problems requires both skills. Novelty and usefulness are the most commonly accepted components of creativity, while systems thinking is the holistic understanding of systems. <italic>Research Question:</italic> How can novelty and systems thinking be assessed based on conceptual models (of technological systems) constructed by graduate engineering students? <italic>Methodology:</italic> Six student teams of two to four members each (<inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N =21$ </tex-math></inline-formula>) constructed solution models based on Object-Process Methodology, a formal methodology and language for model-based systems engineering. The authors assessed these models for novelty and for systems thinking using two existing rubrics based on the construction of system aspects—function, structure, and behavior. <italic>Findings:</italic> The authors provide indications that both novelty and systems thinking can be assessed based on conceptual models of technological systems.

2020: Why Model?
Abstract: Purpose of a Model Models are representations that can aid in defining, analyzing, and communicating a set of concepts. System models are specifically developed to support analysis, specification, design, verification, and validation of a system, as well as to communicate certain information. One of the first principles of modeling is to clearly define the purpose of the model. Some of the purposes that models can serve throughout the system life cycle are: Characterizing an existing system: Many existing systems are poorly documented and modeling ■

