2014: Strong equilibrium in network congestion games: increasing versus decreasing costs
Abstract: None

2011: Simultaneous Ad Auctions
Abstract: We consider a model with two simultaneous VCG ad auctions A and B where each advertiser chooses to participate in a single ad auction. We prove the existence and uniqueness of a symmetric equilibrium in that model. Moreover, when the click rates in A are pointwise higher than those in B, we prove that the expected revenue in A is greater than the expected revenue in B in this equilibrium. In contrast, we show that this revenue ranking does not hold when advertisers can participate in both auctions.

2010: Monotonicity and Implementability
Abstract: Consider an environment with a finite number of alternatives, and agents with private values and quasilinear utility functions. A domain of valuation functions for an agent is a monotonicity domain if every finite-valued monotone randomized allocation rule defined on it is implementable in dominant strategies. We fully characterize the set of all monotonicity domains. Copyright 2010 The Econometric Society.

2010: Supplementary Material for Monotonicity and Implementability
Abstract: 1 Domains with Convex Closure Saks and Yu (2005) proved that if D is convex then every monotone deterministic allocation rule is implementable. We prove in this appendix the following generalization of their result: Theorem 1 Every domain with a convex closure is a proper monotonicity domain.

2009: Two-terminal routing games with unknown active players
Abstract: None

2009: Monotonicity in Mechanism Design
Abstract: None

2008: Implementable allocation rules
Abstract: Let A be a finite set of goods. R is the set of all valuation functions on A, that is the set of all real valued functions defined on A. The value of a for a buyer with valuation v is thus va. It is convenient to represent each good a by its associated unit vector e ∈ R, where ea = 1 and eb = 0 for every b 6= a. Let Z(A) be the set of all sub-probability vectors z ∈ R. That is, Z(A) = {z ∈ R| z ≥ 0 ∀a, ∑ a∈A z a ≤ 1}. Let D ⊆ R, and let f : D → Z(A). We think of D as the set of all possible valuations of a given buyer with quasi-linear utility function, and f is interpreted as a randomized allocation rule in some direct mechanism (D, f, c), where c : D → R; If a buyer with valuation v declares w she receives a with probability f(w), and therefore she evaluates f(w) by the inner product, 〈v, f(w)〉 = ∑ a∈A vaf (w) minus c(w). If ∑ a∈A f (w) < 1, there is a positive probability that the buyer does not receive any good. In such case the utility of the outside option is assumed to equal zero. A randomized allocation rule satisfying f(v) ∈ {e|a ∈ A} for every v ∈ D is called in this manuscript a pure allocation rule. A randomized allocation rule f is finite-valued if its range {f(v)|v ∈ D} is a finite set. We say that a randomized allocation rule f is implementable if there exists a function c : D → R such that truth telling is a dominant strategy in the direct mechanism (D, f, c). That is,

2008: Monotonicity and implementability: extended abstract
Abstract: Consider a model with finite number of goods, and with buyers with private values and quasi-linear utility functions. A domain of valuation functions for a buyer is a monotonicity domain if every finite-valued monotone randomized allocation rule defined on it is implementable, in the sense that there exists a randomized truth-telling direct mechanism that implements this allocation rule. We prove that a domain of valuations of dimension at least 2 is a monotonicity domain if and only if its closure is convex.

2007: Routing games with an unknown set of active players
Abstract: In many settings there exists a set of potential participants, but the set of participants who are actually active in the system, and in particular their number, is unknown. This topic has been first analyzed by Ashlagi, Monderer, and Tennenholtz [AMT] in the context of simple routing games, where the network consists of a set of parallel links, and the agents can not split their jobs among different paths. AMT used the model of pre-Bayesian games, and the concept of safety-level equilibrium for the analysis of these games. In this paper we extend the work by AMT. We deal with splitable routing games, where each player can split his job among paths in a given network. In this context we generalize the analysis to all two-node networks, in which paths may intersect in unrestricted manner. We characterize the relationships between the number of potential participants and the number of active participants under which ignorance is beneficial to each of the active participants.

2007: Learning Equilibrium in Resource Selection Games
Abstract: We consider a resource selection game with incomplete information about the resource-cost functions. All the players know is the set of players, an upper bound on the possible costs, and that the cost functions are positive and nondecreasing. The game is played repeatedly and after every stage each player observes her cost, and the actions of all players. For every E > 0 we prove the existence of a learning E-equilibrium, which is a profile of algorithms, one for each player such that a unilateral deviation of a player is, up to e not beneficial for her regardless of the actual cost functions. Furthermore, the learning eqUilibrium yields an optimal social cost.

2007: Mediators in position auctions
Abstract: A mediator is a reliable entity, which can play on behalf of agents in a given game. A mediator however can not enforce the use of its services, and each agent is free to participate in the game directly. In this paper we introduce a study of mediators for games with incomplete information, and apply it to the context of position auctions, a central topic in electronic commerce. VCG position auctions, which are currently not used in practice, possess somenice theoretical properties, such as the optimization of social surplus and having dominant strategies. These properties may not be satisfied by current position auctions and their variants. We therefore concentrate on the search for mediators that will allow to transform current position auctions into VCG position auctions. We require that accepting the mediator services, and reporting honestly to the mediator, will form an ex post equilibrium, which satisfiesthe following rationality condition: an agent's payoff can not be negative regardless of the actions taken by the agents who did not choose the mediator's services, or by the agents who report false types to the mediator. We prove the existence of such desired mediators for the next-price (Google-like) position auctions, as well as for a richer class of position auctions, including k-price position auctions, k>1. For k=1, the self-price position auction, we show that the existence of such mediator depends on the tie breaking rule used in the auction.

2007: Asymptotically Optimal Multi-ObjectAuctionsDov Monderer
Abstract: Auctions are a basic tool for resource allocation in non-cooperative environments. Much work in computer science, and in artiicial intelligence in particular, has been concerned with algorithms for winner determination in auctions in order to maximize a designer's revenue. In this paper we prove that in an environment with many participants , e.g., the Internet, the Clarke mechanism is an asymptotically optimal multi-object auction. Our results provide foundations and justiication for the approach taken in the AI literature for dealing with multi-object auctions.

2007: Learning equilibrium as a generalization of learning to optimize
Abstract: None

2007: Multipotential Games
Abstract: We introduce and analyze q-potential games and q- congestion games, where q is a positive integer. A 1-potential (congestion) game is a potential (congestion) game. We show that a game is a q-potential game if and only if it is (up to an isomorphism) a q-congestion game. As a corollary, we derive the result that every game in strategic form is a q- congestion game for some q. It is further shown that every q-congestion game is isomorphic to a q- network game, where the network environment is defined by a directed graph with one origin and one destination. Finally we discuss our main agenda: The issue of representing q-congestion games with non-negative cost functions by congestion models with non-negative and monotonic facility cost functions. We provide some initial results in this regard.

2006: Strong mediated equilibrium
Abstract: None

2006: Robust Learning Equilibrium
Abstract: We introduce robust learning equilibrium. The idea of learning equilibrium is that learning algorithms in multi-agent systems should themselves be in equilibrium rather than only lead to equilibrium. That is, learning equilibrium is immune to strategic deviations: Every agent is better off using its prescribed learning algorithm, if all other agents follow their algorithms, regardless of the unknown state of the environment. However, a learning equilibrium may not be immune to non strategic mistakes. For example, if for a certain period of time there is a failure in the monitoring devices (e.g., the correct input does not reach the agents), then it may not be in equilibrium to follow the algorithm after the devices are corrected. A robust learning equilibrium is immune also to such non-strategic mistakes. The existence of (robust) learning equilibrium is especially challenging when the monitoring devices are 'weak'. That is, the information available to each agent at each stage is limited. We initiate a study of robust learning equilibrium with general monitoring structure and apply it to the context of auctions. We prove the existence of robust learning equilibrium in repeated first-price auctions, and discuss its properties.

2006: Resource selection games with unknown number of players
Abstract: In the context of pre-Bayesian games we analyze resource selection games with unknown number of players. We prove the existence and uniqueness of a symmetric safety-level equilibrium in such games and show that in a game with strictly increasing linear cost functions every player benefits from the common ignorance about the number of players. In order to perform the analysis we define safety-level equilibrium for pre-Bayesian games, and prove that it exists in a compact-continuous-concave setup; in particular it exists in a finite setup.

2006: Solution-Based Congestion Games Advances in Mathematical Economics 8 , 397-409 ( 2006 )
Abstract: In this paper we develop the theory of potential of cooperative games for semivalues, characterize congestion models that are defined by semivalues, and suggest an application of these results to combinatorial auctions, which may explain the success of the Iowa electronic market.

2006: Pre-Bayesian Games
Abstract: Work on modelling uncertainty in game theory and economics almost always uses Bayesian assumptions. On the other hand, work in computer science frequently uses non-Bayesian assumptions and appeal to forms of worst case analysis. In this talk we deal with Pre-Bayesian games, games with incomplete information but with no probabilistic assumptions about the environment. We first discuss safety-level, minmax regret, and competitive ratio equilibria, and their existence in a general setting. Our study then concentrates on safety-level equilibrium and its use when incorporating uncertainty into congestion settings. In particular, we show that the lack of knowledge on the number of participants is beneficial to the society in any linear resource selection game. Next we introduce efficient learning equilibrium [ELE], a form of ex-post equilibrium for Pre-Bayesian repeated (and more generally, stochastic) games. ELE is a solution concept for learning in games, where the learning algorithms themselves are required to be in equilibrium for a whole class of games. We prove the (constructive) existence of ELE for some rich settings. The talk will be a brief and somewhat informal introduction to our work on Pre-Bayesian games. The particular results which will be presented are based on joint work with Itai Ashlagi, Ronen Brafman, and Dov Monderer.

2006: Solution-based congestion games
Abstract: None

