2024: Effort Level Search in Infinite Completion Trees with Application to Task-and-Motion Planning
Abstract: Solving a Task-and-Motion Planning (TAMP) problem can be represented as a sequential (meta-) decision process, where early decisions concern the skeleton (sequence of logic actions) and later decisions concern what to compute for such skeletons (e.g., action parameters, bounds, RRT paths, or full optimal manipulation trajectories). We consider the general problem of how to schedule compute effort in such hierarchical solution processes. More specifically, we introduce infinite completion trees as a problem formalization, where before we can expand or evaluate a node, we have to solve a preemptible computational sub-problem of a priori unknown compute effort. Infinite branchings represent an infinite choice of random initializations of computational sub-problems. Decision making in such trees means to decide on where to invest compute or where to widen a branch. We propose a heuristic to balance branching width and compute depth using polynomial level sets. We show completeness of the resulting solver and that a round robin baseline strategy used previously for TAMP becomes a special case. Experiments confirm the robustness and efficiency of the method on problems including stochastic bandits and a suite of TAMP problems, and compare our approach to a round robin baseline. An appendix comparing the framework to bandit methods and proposing a corresponding tree policy version is found on the supplementary webpage 1.

2024: Good Things Come to Those Who Wait: The Power of Sensing in Social Laws
Abstract: None

2024: A Deterministic Search Approach for Solving Stochastic Drone Search and Rescue Planning Without Communications
Abstract: In disaster relief efforts, delivering aid to areas with no communication poses a significant challenge. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) can be utilized to deliver aid kits to survivors in hard-to-reach areas; unfortunately, in some areas, lack of communication and infrastructure presents a key problem. 
In this paper, we address a stochastic planning problem of planning for a set of UAVs that deliver aid kits to areas that lack communications, where we do not know in advance the locations where aid kits need to be delivered, but rather have probabilistic information about the locations of aid targets.
Our main insight is that, despite the stochastic nature of this problem, we can solve it through deterministic search by monitoring the expected reward for each partial solution. This insight enables the application of deterministic planning techniques, empirically demonstrating a notable improvement in efficiency and response speed. Our approach presents a promising solution to addressing the challenge of delivering aid in regions with limited radio infrastructure, as well as similar planning problems.

2024: Towards an autonomous clinical decision support system
Abstract: None

2024: Planning and Acting While the Clock Ticks
Abstract: Standard temporal planning assumes that planning takes place offline, and then execution starts at time 0. Recently, situated temporal planning was introduced, where planning starts at time 0, and execution occurs after planning terminates. Situated temporal planning reflects a more realistic scenario where time passes during planning. However, in situated temporal planning a complete plan must be generated before any action is executed. In some problems with time pressure, timing is too tight to complete planning before the first action must be executed. For example, an autonomous car that has a truck backing towards it should probably move out of the way now, and plan how to get to its destination later. In this paper, we propose a new problem setting: concurrent planning and execution, in which actions can be dispatched (executed) before planning terminates. Unlike previous work on planning and execution, we must handle wall clock deadlines that affect action applicability and goal achievement (as in situated planning) while also supporting dispatching actions before a complete plan has been found. We extend previous work on metareasoning for situated temporal planning to develop an algorithm for this new setting. Our empirical evaluation shows that when there is strong time pressure, our approach outperforms situated temporal planning.

2024: On Verifying Linear Execution Strategies in Planning Against Nature
Abstract: While planning and acting in environments in which nature can trigger non-deterministic events, the agent has to consider that the state of the environment might change without its consent. Practically, it means that the agent has to make sure that it eventually achieves its goal (if possible) despite the acts of nature. In this paper, we first formalize the semantics of such problems in Alternating-time Temporal Logic, which allows us to prove some theoretical properties of different types of solutions. Then, we focus on linear execution strategies, which resemble classical plans in that they follow a fixed sequence of actions. We show that any problem that can be solved by a linear execution strategy can be solved by a particular form of linear execution strategy which assigns wait-for preconditions to each action in the plan that specifies when to execute that action. Then, we propose a sound algorithm that verifies a sequence of actions and assigns wait-for preconditions to them by leveraging abstraction.

2024: On Verifying and Generating Robust Plans for Planning Tasks with Exogenous Events
Abstract: Planning and acting under the presence of exogenous events brings a number of challenges as events might modify the environment without the consent of the acting agent. Consequently, the agent's plan might get disrupted, agent's goals might no longer be achievable, or, worse, the agent might suffer some damage (e.g. damage to the robot). Although policies, mapping states to appropriate actions to take, can describe, in theory, how the agent should act, they might be difficult to explain and understand for humans in the loop.

In this paper, we describe the concept of robust plans that are sequences of actions that can be successfully executed regardless of event occurrence. Robust plans are easier to understand (than policies). We present two methods for verifying whether a sequence of actions is a robust plan, one based on compilation to classical planning, and the other based on leveraging delete-relaxation. We also present a method for generating robust plans that is derived from the "relaxation" verification method. The methods are evaluated on three domains.

2024: Evaluating Distributional Predictions of Search Time: Put Up or Shut Up Games (Extended Abstract)
Abstract: Metareasoning can be a helpful technique for controlling search in situations where computation time is an important resource, such as 
real-time planning and search, algorithm portfolios, and concurrent planning and execution. Metareasoning often involves an estimate of the remaining search time of a running algorithm, and several ways to compute such estimates have been presented in the literature. In this paper, we argue that many applications actually require a full estimated probability distribution over the remaining time, rather than just a point estimate of expected search time. We study several methods for estimating such distributions, including some novel adaptations of existing schemes.
To properly evaluate the estimates, we introduce `put-up or shut-up games', which probe the distributional estimates without requiring infeasible computation.
Our experimental evaluation reveals that estimates that are more accurate in expected value do not necessarily deliver better distributions, yielding worse scores in the game.

2023: Robofriend: An Adpative Storytelling Robotic Teddy Bear - Technical Report
Abstract: In this paper we describe Robofriend, a robotic teddy bear for telling stories to young children. Robofriend adapts its behavior to keep the childrens' attention using reinforcement learning.

2023: Hierarchical Planning for Rope Manipulation using Knot Theory and a Learned Inverse Model
Abstract: : This work considers planning the manipulation of deformable 1-dimensional objects such as ropes or cables, specifically to tie knots. We propose TWISTED: Tying With Inverse model and Search in Topological space Excluding Demos, a hierarchical planning approach which, at the high level, uses ideas from knot theory to plan a sequence of rope topological states, while at the low level uses a neural-network inverse model to move between the configurations in the high-level plan. To train the neural network, we propose a self-supervised approach, where we learn from random movements of the rope. To focus the random movements on interesting configurations, such as knots, we propose a non-uniform sampling method tailored for this domain. In a simulation, we show that our approach can plan significantly faster and more accurately than baselines. We also show that our plans are robust to parameter changes in the physical simulation, suggesting future applications via sim2real.

2023: Any-Start-Time Planning for SIPP
Abstract: The problem of navigation among moving obstacles, some-times referred to as SIPP, is a problem in which the applicability of an action, such as moving to a particular neighboring location, can change with the passage of time. This means that the optimal plan, and its duration, can change depending on when execution begins. In practice, the execution start time is often unknown until planning completes or another agent gives the go-ahead. However, most prior work on SIPP assumes a known start time and thus that the found plans are always feasible. In this paper, we relax this assumption and directly address the setting of any-start-time planning. We present a general-purpose data structure that compactly encodes the optimal plan as a function of start time, as well as planning algorithms that utilize it. In experiments on SIPP, we find that this data structure tells us how long our paths remain valid, while its overhead is minimal. We also find that, in any-start-time SIPP, replanning is insufficient for difficult problems. In contrast, our any-start-time algorithms can be quickly queried for the optimal plan once the start time is known, albeit at the cost of substantial precomputation time.

2023: A Formal Metareasoning Model of Concurrent Planning and Execution
Abstract: Agents that plan and act in the real world must deal with the fact that time passes as they are planning. When timing is tight, there may be insufficient time to complete the search for a plan before it is time to act. By commencing execution before search concludes, one gains time to search by making planning and execution concurrent. However, this incurs the risk of making incorrect action choices, especially if actions are irreversible. This tradeoff between opportunity and risk is the problem addressed in this paper. Our main contribution is to formally define this setting as an abstract metareasoning problem. We find that the abstract problem is intractable. However, we identify special cases that are solvable in polynomial time, develop greedy solution algorithms, and, through tests on instances derived from search problems, find several methods that achieve promising practical performance. This work lays the foundation for a principled time-aware executive that concurrently plans and executes.

2023: Automated Verification of Social Laws in Numeric Settings
Abstract: It is possible for agents operating in a shared environment to interfere with one another. One mechanism of coordination is called Social Law. Enacting such a law in a multi-agent setting restricts agents' behaviors. Robustness, in this case, ensures that the agents do not harmfully interfere with each other and that each agent achieves its goals regardless of what other agents do. Previous work on social law verification examined only the case of boolean state variables. However, many real-world problems require reasoning with numeric variables. Moreover, numeric fluents allow a more compact representation of multiple planning problems.

In this paper, we develop a method to verify whether a given social law is robust via compilation to numeric planning. A solution to this compilation constitutes a counterexample to the robustness of the problem, i.e., evidence of cross-agent conflict. Thus, the social law is robust if and only if the proposed compilation is unsolvable. We empirically verify robustness in multiple domains using state-of-the-art numeric planners. Additionally, this compilation raises a challenge by generating a set of non-trivial numeric domains where unsolvability should be either proved or disproved.

2022: Learning to Estimate Search Progress Using Sequence of States
Abstract: Many problems of interest can be solved using heuristic search algorithms. When solving a heuristic search problem, we are often interested in estimating search progress, that is, how much longer until we have a solution. Previous work on search progress estimation derived formulas based on some relevant features that can be observed from the behavior of the search algorithm. In this paper, rather than manually deriving such formulas we leverage machine learning to learn more accurate search progress predictors automatically. We train a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network, which takes as input sequences of nodes expanded by the search algorithm, and predicts how far along with the search we are. Importantly, our approach still treats the search algorithm as a black box and does not look into the contents of search nodes. An empirical evaluation shows our technique outperforms previous search progress estimation techniques.

2022: When to Commit to an Action in Online Planning and Search
Abstract: In online planning, search is concurrent with execution. Under the formulation of planning as heuristic search, when a planner commits to an action, it re-roots its search tree at the node representing the outcome of that action. For the system to remain controlled, the planner must commit to a new action (perhaps a no-op) before the previously chosen action completes. This time pressure results in a real-time search. In this time-bounded setting, it can be beneficial to commit early, in order to perform more lookahead search focused below an upcoming state. In this paper, we propose a principled method for making this commitment decision. Our experimental evaluation shows that our scheme can outperform previously-proposed fixed strategies.

2022: Differential game to evaluate the worst case influence of a varying disturbance on the minimal time solution for a small vehicle movement
Abstract: The problem of an autonomous agent moving on a planar surface, such as an aerial drone or a small naval vessel can be treated as navigation between a series of points. In addition the robots operating in the real world often have to come up with a sequence of actions, a plan, which will take them from an initial state to the desired goal state. During planning, the robots have to take into account both discrete and continuous changes, as well as temporal constraints. While nominally the movement between each pair of points can be treated as a 1D projection of the movement on the vector connecting the two points, in the presence of disturbances, the full problem on the plane must be considered. The minimum-time optimal solution depends on the value and direction of the disturbance which in this paper is assumed to be a sum of a constant velocity of the medium (wind or current, respectively) and a bounded time-varying part with uncertain but bounded time derivative. We address the minimum time problem of a movement on a 2D plane with quadratic drag, under norm state (inertial vessel velocity), and norm control (acceleration) constraints. The worst case influence of an uncertain disturbance is evaluated by consideration of a differential game with state and control constraints. The structure and properties of the optimal solution were found and analyzed.

2022: A Conflict-Driven Interface Between Symbolic Planning and Nonlinear Constraint Solving
Abstract: Robotic planning in real-world scenarios typically requires joint optimization of logic and continuous variables. A core challenge to combine the strengths of logic planners and continuous solvers is the design of an efficient interface that informs the logical search about continuous infeasibilities. In this paper we present a novel iterative algorithm that connects logic planning with nonlinear optimization through a bidirectional interface, achieved by the detection of minimal subsets of nonlinear constraints that are infeasible. The algorithm continuously builds a database of graphs that represent (in)feasible subsets of continuous variables and constraints, and encodes this knowledge in the logical description. As a foundation for this algorithm, we introduce Planning with Nonlinear Transition Constraints (PNTC), a novel planning formulation that clarifies the exact assumptions our algorithm requires and can be applied to model Task and Motion Planning (TAMP) efficiently. Our experimental results show that our framework significantly outperforms alternative optimization-based approaches for TAMP.

2022: A Compilation Based Approach to Finding Centroids and Minimum Covering States in Planning
Abstract: In some scenarios, an agent may want to prepare for achieving one of several possible goals, by reaching some state which is close (according to some metric) to all possible goals. Recently, this task was formulated as finding centroids (which minimize the average distance to the goals) or minimum covering states (which minimize the maximum distance). In this paper, we present a compilation based approach for finding such states. Our compilation is very similar to the one used to find the worst case distinctiveness (wcd) in goal recognition design (GRD), and is orders of magnitude faster than the previous state-of-the-art, which was based on exhaustive search.

2022: Conflict-Directed Diverse Planning for Logic-Geometric Programming
Abstract: Robots operating in the real world must combine task planning for reasoning about what to do with motion planning for reasoning about how to do it -- this is known as task and motion planning. One promising approach for task and motion planning is Logic Geometric Programming (LGP) which integrates a logical layer and a geometric layer in an optimization formulation. The logical layer describes feasible high-level actions at an abstract symbolic level, while the geometric layer uses continuous optimization methods to reason about motion trajectories with geometric constraints. 
In this paper we propose a new approach for solving task and motion planning problems in the LGP formulation, that leverages state-of-the-art diverse planning at the logical layer to explore the space of feasible logical plans, and minimizes the number of optimization problems to be solved on the continuous geometric layer. To this end, geometric infeasibility is fed back into planning by identifying prefix conflicts and incorporating this back into the planner through a novel multi-prefix forbidding compilation. We further leverage diverse planning with a new novelty criteria for selecting candidate plans based on the prefix novelty, and a metareasoning approach which attempts to extract only useful conflicts by leveraging the information that is gathered in the course of solving the given problem.

2022: Minimum Mixed Time–Energy Trajectory Planning of a Nonlinear Vehicle Subject to 2D Disturbances
Abstract: None

