Recent papers for Eisenstein Gadi:

2023: On the relation between electrical and electro-optical properties of tunnelling injection quantum dot lasers
Abstract: Abstract We present a comprehensive study of the temperature dependent electronic and optoelectronic properties of a tunnelling injection quantum dot laser. The optical power-voltage (P opt–V) characteristics are shown to be correlated with the current-voltage (I–V) and capacitance-voltage (C–V) dependencies at low and elevated temperatures. Cryogenic temperature measurements reveal a clear signature of resonant tunnelling manifested in periodic responses of the I–V and P opt–V characteristics, which diminish above 60 K. The C–V characteristics reveal a hysteresis stemming from charging and de-charging of the quantum dots, as well as negative capacitance. The latter is accompanied by a clear peak that appears at the voltage corresponding to carrier clamping, since the clamping induces a transient-like effect on the carrier density. C–V measurements lead also to a determination of the dot density which is found to be similar to that obtained from atomic force microscopy. C–V measurements enable also to extract the average number of trapped electrons in each quantum dot which is 0.95. As the important parameters of the laser have signatures in the electrical and electro-optical characteristics, the combination serves as a powerful tool to study intricate details of the laser operation.

2023: United time and frequency spectroscopy with engineered dual comb spectrometer
Abstract: We report a dual-comb spectrometer having engineered pulse trains used to study two-level system dynamics with high frequency and temporal resolutions. The excitation evolution of rubidium isotopes was measured with a resolution of 4ns.

2023: Highly coherent hybrid dual-comb spectrometer.
Abstract: Dual comb spectroscopy (DCS) is a broadband technique offering high resolution and fast data acquisition. Current state-of-the-art designs are based on a pair of fiber or solid-state lasers, which allow broadband spectroscopy but require a complicated stabilization setup. Semiconductor lasers are tunable, cost-effective, and easily integrable while limited by a narrow bandwidth. This motivates a hybrid design combining the advantages of both systems. However, establishing sufficiently long mutual coherence time remains challenging. This work describes a hybrid dual-comb spectrometer comprising a broadband fiber laser (FC) and an actively mode-locked semiconductor laser (MLL) with a narrow but tunable spectrum. A high mutual coherence time of around 100 seconds has been achieved by injection locking the MLL to a continuous laser (CW), which is locked on a single line of the FC. We have also devised a method to directly stabilize the entire spectrum of FC to a high finesse cavity. This results in a long term stability of 5 × 10-12 at 1 second and 5 × 10-14 at 350 seconds. Additionally, we have addressed the effect of cavity dispersion on the locking quality, which is important for broadband comb lasers.

2022: Combined time and frequency spectroscopy with engineered dual-comb spectrometer
Abstract: Dual comb spectroscopy (DCS) is a powerful technique for broadband spectroscopy with high precision and fast data acquisition. High-frequency resolution requires long data acquisition times, limiting the temporal resolution in time-resolved measurements. Here we overcome this limitation by engineering the DCS pulse train that interacts with the sample. The measurement is performed in steps where the number of pulses interacting with the sample varies in each step. The DCS spectrum is recorded in each stage, and a multi-dimensional spectrum is generated from which the system time evolution is deduced. We demonstrate this method by measuring the absorption spectrum of a room temperature rubidium vapor. The measured population dynamics of the excited state show a square dependence on the number of interacting pulses due to the coherent accumulation of population. Rabi oscillations are also observed under intense excitation conditions. This is the first demonstration of DCS with high frequency and time resolutions without invoking pump-probe spectroscopy, uniting the pulsed laser spectral and temporal properties. This method can simultaneously detect the kinetics of different chemical species and the pathway for the chemical reaction.

2022: Quantum optics in room temperature quantum dot ensembles
Abstract: None

2022: Carrier dynamics in quantum-dot tunnel-injection structures: Microscopic theory and experiment
Abstract: Tunneling-injection structures are incorporated in semiconductor lasers in order to overcome the fundamental dynamical limitation due to hot carrier injection by providing a carrier transport path from a cold carrier reservoir. The tunneling process itself depends on band alignment between quantum-dot levels and the injector quantum well, especially as in these devices LO-phonon scattering is dominant. Quantum dots with their first excited state near the quantum well bottom profit the most from tunnel coupling. As inhomogeneous broadening is omnipresent in quantum dot structures, this implies that individual members of the ensemble couple differently to the injector quantum well. Quantum dots with higher energy profit less, as the phonon couples to higher, less occupied states. Likewise, if the energy difference between ground state and quantum well exceeds the LO-phonon energy, scattering becomes increasingly inefficient. Therefore, within 20–30 meV, we find quantum dots that benefit substantially different from the tunnel coupling. Furthermore, in quantum dots with increasing confinement depth, excited states become successively confined. Here, scattering gets more efficient again, as subsequent excited states reach the phonon resonance with the quantum well bottom. Our results provide guidelines for the optimization of tunnel-injection lasers. Theoretical results for electronic state calculations in connection with carrier–phonon and carrier–carrier scattering are compared to the experimental results of the temporal gain recovery after a short pulse perturbation.

2022: An Ultra-Coherent Semiconductor Laser Locked to a Short Delay Fiber Mach-Zehnder Interferometer With Active Fiber Noise Cancellation
Abstract: We propose and demonstrate a technique to vastly reduce the linewidth of a commercially available semiconductor laser operating at 1550 nm by locking it to an all-fiber Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) with a short path length imbalance. The long term linewidth was reduced from 20 kHz to the single and even sub Hz level. Very narrow linewidths can only be measured by beating two separate, nominally identical lasers. To this end, we employ two lasers configured in a unique, counter propagating configuration, both locked to two different fringes of the MZI. The beat between the two locked lasers proves the extremely narrow linewidth of each laser. In order to detect and compensate for the noise caused by mechanical and thermal fluctuations of the fibers, we use the beat signal as an input to a servo loop that feeds a piezo electric fiber stretcher stabilizing the MZI.

2022: Imaging the field inside nanophotonic accelerators
Abstract: None

2022: Dynamic filtering and modulation properties of tunnel-injection based quantum-dot laser devices
Abstract: None

2022: High optical gain in InP-based quantum-dot material monolithically grown on silicon emitting at telecom wavelengths
Abstract: We describe the fabrication process and properties of an InP based quantum dot (QD) laser structure grown on a 5° off-cut silicon substrate. Several layers of QD-based dislocation filters embedded in GaAs and InP were used to minimize the defect density in the QD active region which comprised eight emitting dot layers. The structure was analyzed using high resolution transmission electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy and photoluminescence. The epitaxial stack was used to fabricate optical amplifiers which exhibit electroluminescence spectra that are typical of conventional InAs QD amplifiers grown on InP substrates. The amplifiers avail up to 20 dB of optical gain, which is equivalent to a modal gain of 46 cm−1.

2022: Steering coherence in quantum dots by carriers injection via tunneling
Abstract: Abstract Coherent control is a key experimental technique for quantum optics and quantum information processing. We demonstrate a new degree of freedom in coherent control of semiconductor quantum dot (QD) ensembles operating at room temperature using the tunneling injection (TI) processes in which charge carriers tunnel directly from a quantum well reservoir to QD confined states. The TI scheme was originally proposed and implemented to improve QD lasers and optical amplifiers, by providing a direct injection path of cold carriers thereby eliminating the hot carrier injection problem which enhances gain nonlinearity. The impact of the TI processes on the coherent time of the QDs was never considered, however. We show here that since the cold carriers that tunnel to the oscillating QD state are incoherent, the rate of injection determines the coherent time of the QDs thereby controlling coherent light–matter interactions. Coherent interactions by means of Rabi oscillations were demonstrated in absorption and for weak excitation pulses in the gain regime. However, Rabi oscillations are totally diminished under strong excitation pulses which increase the rate of stimulated emission, causing the tunneling processes to dominate what shortens the coherence time significantly. Since the tunneling rate, and hence, the coherence time, were controlled by the optical excitation and electrical bias, our finding paves the way for TI-based coherence switching on a sub-picosecond time scale in room-temperature semiconductor nanometric structures.

2022: A phase stable hybrid dual comb spectrometer
Abstract: Dual comb spectroscopy (DCS) is a broadband technique offering high resolution and fast data acquisition. We describe a hybrid dual comb spectrometer comprising a broadband commercial fiber laser system offering a wide range of sample interrogation, and an actively mode locked semiconductor laser (MLL) having a widely tunable, relatively narrow spectrum. The mutual coherence over 100 seconds has been realized between the two combs. We employed the DCS system to characterize the absorption spectrum of rubidium atoms at 313 K with a high signal to noise ratio. The broadband laser is directly locked on a high finesse cavity, providing long-term stability, while the semiconductor laser is locked to it. To characterize the absolute stability of the DCS system, the linewidth of the MLL comb line is measured and shown to reduce from 880 kHz to $17$ kHz when the system is fully locked. The long-term stability was measured to be $5 \times 10^{-12}$ at $1$ second and $5 \times 10^{-14}$ at $350$ seconds. The measured timing jitter of the MLL is ten times smaller due to the overall locking. In addition, we have addressed the effect of dispersion on the locking quality, which is significant for broadband comb lasers.

2022: Imaging the field profile inside dielectric laser acceleration nanostructures
Abstract: We present deep sub-wavelength measurement of the field distribution inside nanophotonic dielectric laser accelerator structures, using photon-induced nearfield electron microscopy. Comparing the measured field with theory provides new insight into accelerators’ performance and structural sensitivity.

2022: 1.5-µm Indium Phosphide-based Quantum Dot Lasers and Optical Amplifiers
Abstract: An overview will be given on the progress of quantum dot laser materials addressing the telecom C band and their high potential for the application in optical communication systems, where temperature stability of the device performance as well as a narrow linewidth emission plays an important role. Device results of quantum dot lasers and optical amplifiers will be shown, and the physical background discussed.

2021: On the principle operation of tunneling injection quantum dot lasers
Abstract: None

2021: Creating heralded hyper-entangled photons using Rydberg atoms
Abstract: None

2021: Linewidth reduction of a semiconductor laser nodule to 6 Hz by locking to a fiber Mach-Zehnder interferometer
Abstract: We demonstrate large linewidth reduction in semiconductor lasers, from 20kHz to the single-Hz regime, by locking to an unstabilized all-fiber Mach-Zehnder interferometer with a short path length imbalance. The results rival solutions using scrupulously stabilized ultra-high-Q cavities thereby enabling new practical applications for highly-coherent sources.

2021: Quantum coherent revival in a room-temperature quantum-dot optical amplifier: a route towards practical quantum information processing
Abstract: The hallmark quantum-optics phenomenon: quantum coherent revival was demonstrated in room-temperature quantum dot optical amplifiers. The revival originates from coherent excitation of, and interaction among, homogeneous subgroups within an inhomogeneous ensemble, which play the role of a multi qubits platform for practical quantum information processing.

2021: On the carrier transport and radiative recombination mechanisms in tunneling injection quantum dot lasers
Abstract: We report temperature-dependent current–voltage (I − V − T) and output light power-voltage or current (P − V − T) or (P − I − T) characteristics of 1550 nm tunneling injection quantum dot (TI QD) laser diodes. Experimental data is accompanied by physical models that distinguish between different current flow and light emission mechanisms for different applied voltages and temperature ranges. Three exponential regimes in the I − V characteristics were identified for low bias levels where no optical radiation takes place. At the lowest bias levels, the diffusion-recombination mechanism based on the classical Shockley-Reid-Hall theory dominates. This is followed, at low and near room temperature, by a combination of weak tunneling and generation-recombination, respectively. In the third exponential region, for all temperatures carrier transport is dictated by strong tunneling, which is characterized by a temperature-independent slope of the I – V curves and a variable ideality factor. The I − V results were compared to a conventional QD laser in which the current flow mechanisms of the first and third types are absent, which clearly demonstrates the key role played by the TI layer. In the post-exponential voltage range, when the diodes are in the high injection regime, the characteristics of the two types of diodes are identical. The typical behavior at the threshold current, where the output power increases fast has a clear signature in the I − V characteristics. Finally, an analytical quantitative relationship is established between the light output power and the applied voltage and current as well as the carrier density participating in radiative recombination.

2021: Imprinting the quantum statistics of photons on free electrons
Abstract: We observe for the first time the breakdown of the wave nature of light in free-electron–light interactions. Our experiment demonstrates a new way of measuring quantum states of light using high-precision electron energy spectroscopy.

