2022: Managing Service Shutdowns: Cash Refunds or Vouchers?
Abstract: None

2021: Service Shutdowns and Compensation: Cash Refunds or Vouchers?
Abstract: Government mandated shutdowns in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have led to a vast number of service cancellations and a heated debate on compensation policies. Service providers pushed for vouchers as a means of compensation, whereas customers demand cash refunds or generous vouchers that compensate for postponed service. Regulators, at the same time, insist that customers must be granted the right to be reimbursed in money. To address the debate, this paper develops an analytical framework to study the profitability and efficiency of different compensation policies following shutdown. Surprisingly, we find that the voucher-only policy dominates the hybrid policy that offers customers the choice between a cash-back and a voucher option in terms of profit and welfare if customers have high salvage values for the service. We also find that if the regulator imposes cash-back as an option for compensation, it is optimal for the provider to include a bonus in the voucher. In contrast, the provider will not offer a bonus in the absence of a cash-back option. Overall, our analysis helps to evaluate compensation policies from the perspectives of pre-shutdown efficiency, post-shutdown customer dissatisfaction, and possible compromise between market participants.

2019: Funding Mechanisms for Higher Education: A Marketing Perspective
Abstract: This paper develops an analytical model to investigate the impact of governmental funding of higher education on educational outcomes including tuition, graduation rates, and enrollment. Assuming that students make an enrollment decision based on tuition, graduation rate, and labor market prospects, we show that push and pull funding strategies are equally effective in lowering net tuition and in increasing enrollment, the expected graduation rate, and social welfare without compromising the academic standards. We also show that a policy change from enrollment-based funding to performance-based funding raises graduation rates but does not necessarily improve the performance of the education system.

2017: Optimizing Service Failure and Damage Control
Abstract: Should a provider deliver a reliable service or should it allow for occasional service failures? This paper derives conditions under which randomizing service quality can benefit the provider and society. In addition to cost considerations, heterogeneity in customer damages from service failures allows the provider to generate profit from selling damage prevention services or offering compensation to high-damage customers. This strategy is viable even when reputation counts and markets are competitive.

2011: Fee or free? How much to add on for an add-on
Abstract: None

2011: Customer Bill of Rights Under No-Fault Service Failure: Confinement and Compensation
Abstract: Service providers and their customers are sometimes victims of failures caused by exogenous factors such as unexpected bad weather, power outages, or labor strikes. When such no-fault failures occur in confined zones, service providers may confine customers against their will if making arrangements for them to leave is very costly. Such confinements, however, can result in severe pain and suffering, and customer complaints put regulators under pressure to pass a customer bill of rights that allows captive customers to abort failed services. This paper shows that service providers are better off preempting such laws by voluntarily allowing customers to escape the service under failure. Moreover, service providers can profit by targeting compensation to customers based on whether they use or leave the service under failure.

2010: For a Few Cents More: Why Supersize Unhealthy Food?
Abstract: Health-care experts believe that increases in portion sizes served by food vendors contribute to the obesity epidemic. This paper shows that food vendors can profit handsomely by using supersizing strategies where regular portion sizes are priced sufficiently high to discourage price-conscious consumers from selecting them, and the prices for enlarging food portions are set so low that these customers are tempted to order the larger portion sizes and overeat. Setting aside the impact of obesity on health-care costs, we show that using supersizing to steer customers toward consuming excessive amounts of food can destroy value from a social perspective; thus this social value destruction trap adds another justification for pressuring food vendors to reduce supersizing for unhealthy food. As a public policy response, we consider how “moderating policies” may counter these effects through measures designed specifically to encourage eating in moderation by applying supersizing bans, taxes, and warnings.

2009: Research Note - Should Captive Sardines Be Compensated? Serving Customers in a Confined Zone
Abstract: Many services are delivered to a (large) number of customers simultaneously within a confined zone (e.g., restaurants, resorts, trains, and airplanes). Under unexpected high demand, customers experience discomfort from two major sources: (a) the sardine effect that arises when too many customers (i.e., sardines) compete for space and service resources, and (b) the captivity effect that results from an exit cost incurred by customers who self-select to “escape” the unpleasant service. This paper investigates the optimal compensation and pricing policies under these two effects. We find that offering compensation to sardines can improve profit and social welfare. However, consumers do not benefit when compensated for the discomfort from crowding. This paper also provides insights by exploring the impact of changes in the two effects on price and profit.

2009: Could higher fees lead to lower prices
Abstract: Purpose – Supplementary fees such as restocking fees, nonrefundable shipping and handling fees, and cancellation fees have become prevalent in the USA, and customers as well as the popular media have raised serious concerns about them. This paper aims to test whether such fees could benefit consumers because they lead to lower prices.Design/methodology/approach – Transaction data that include prices and fees were collected from different service providers, including hotels, airlines, online retailers, and restaurants. The data were collected from different countries at different points in time. Cross‐sectional and panel data sets were used to test the relationship between fees and prices.Findings – The empirical results indicate that on average higher fees lead to lower prices for the majority of customers who do not abuse customer‐friendly service policies. These findings are valid for different service industries in different countries even after controlling for unobserved heterogeneity using panel econ...

2008: Rating E-Tailers' Money-Back Guarantees
Abstract: Most e-tailers offer money-back guarantees (MBGs) on product returns, but coverage and durations of different policies vary significantly across e-tailers (taking into account restocking fees, shipping and handling fees, and coverage duration). To help consumers and e-tailers evaluate MBG policies, we developed three different “MBGQual” (money-back guarantee quality) indexes that measure the insurance protection, costs, and attractiveness of the MBGs to consumers. The usefulness of these indexes is illustrated by examining MBGs offered by electronic product e-tailers.

2008: Should Captive Sardines Be Compensated? Serving Customers in a Confined Zone
Abstract: Many services are delivered to a (large) number of customers simultaneously within a confined zone (e.g., restaurants, resorts, trains, and airplanes). Under unexpected high demand, customers experience discomfort from two major sources: (a) the that arises when too many customers (i.e., sardines) compete for space and service resources, and (b) the that results from an exit cost incurred by customers who self-select to “escape” the unpleasant service. This paper investigates the optimal compensation and pricing policies under these two effects. We find that offering compensation to sardines can improve profit and social welfare. However, consumers do benefit when compensated for the discomfort from crowding. This paper also provides insights by exploring the impact of changes in the two effects on price and profit.

2007: Service Escape : Profiting from Customer Cancellations Jinhong Xie
Abstract: T paper explores the benefits of letting customers escape from prepurchased service contracts by offering refunds for cancellations. We show that such a policy creates opportunities for multiple selling in a capacity-constrained service—i.e., collecting cancellation fees from advance buyers who cancel, and then reselling the freed slots. The better the alternative that motivates a cancellation, the more profitable is a refundfor-cancellations policy compared with a no-refund policy that “locks in” customers. In contrast to previous research on money-back guarantees for durable goods, we show that offering refunds for service cancellations can be profitable (1) without charging a higher price compared with a no-refund policy, and (2) even when advance buyers would be willing to abandon the service for no refund. Also, service providers should decrease rather than increase the customer hassle cost of cancellations. Our research also suggests a new profit advantage of advance selling, i.e., capturing some of the consumer-added surplus created when customers find new alternatives (and are therefore willing to pay a fee to terminate the prepurchased contract). Finally, yieldmanagement research typically assumes exogenous “no shows” by advance buyers. We suggest that offering refunds for cancellation reduces the need to reserve capacity for high-paying customers and improves capacity utilization.

2007: Uncertain Imitability : An Analysis of Interfirm Differences in Efficiency under Competition
Abstract: None

2007: Are Customers Always Right? Fees to Protect Firms from Customer Opportunistic Behavior
Abstract: None

2006: Offering low price guarantees to improve customer retention
Abstract: None

2006: Invited Commentary---Why Does Poor Service Prevail?
Abstract: In their article “Marketing Models of Service and Relationships,” Rust and Chung (2006) provide a detailed and useful review of service and relationship marketing models and outline interesting new directions for future research. One would hope that the recent attention to service marketing will help services improve financial performance while improving customer satisfaction and loyalty. Recent reports in the popular media, however, suggest that service quality and customer satisfaction are declining. “It’s a Service Economy, But Where’s the Service?” wondered the author of a New York Times article a few years ago (Miller 1997), and “Why Service Stinks?” asked a Business Week cover story (Brady 2000). According to the latter, “studies by groups ranging from the Council of Better Business Bureaus Inc. to the University of Michigan vividly detail what consumers already know: Good service is increasingly rare. From passengers languishing in airport queues to bank clients caught in voicemail hell, most consumers feel they’re getting squeezed by Corporate America’s push for profits and productivity.” More recently, a Wall Street Journal article titled “Cases of ‘Customer Rage’ Mount as Bad Service Prompts Venting” suggests that “U.S. companies are driving their customers crazy” (Spencer 2003). The purpose of this comment is to briefly discuss why, in light of all the research Rust and Chung (2006) point to, poor service may still prevail. We review some of the existing marketing models aimed at addressing this issue and suggest directions for future

2005: Pre-sale vs. Post-sale e-satisfaction: Impact on repurchase intention and overall satisfaction
Abstract: E-tailers deliver services in two phases: before the sale takes place, and after the sale is over. Previous research in behavioral science has suggested that the time sequence of service delivery may affect customer evaluation of service and therefore it may also affect e-satisfaction. To determine how much to invest in pre-sale services relative to post-sale services, e-tailers should examine the impacts of customer satisfaction with services delivered in each phase on repurchase intention and overall service rating. In this paper, we measure these impacts and find that post-sale service has a much stronger impact on customer repurchase intention and overall service ratings compared to service delivered pre-sale. Because of this recency effect (buyers give more weight to e-service they receive late than to e-service received earlier), e-tailers are advised to put a strong emphasis on post-sale service.

2005: The Economics of Service Upgrades
Abstract: Many service providers offer different service classes (e.g., first class, second class). Because the capacity of each class is set in advance, providers may end up with unfilled first-class capacity at the time of service delivery. When this happens, providers often upgrade some of their customers from a lower service class to a higher one. One way in which service providers manage upgrades is by selling, in advance, tickets that entitle the holder to an upgrade if space becomes available in a higher service class. This article investigates the circumstances under which upgradeable tickets are profitable, how to price them, and how many to issue. Upgradeable tickets increase the provider’s profits when the probability of obtaining full price for first-class service is sufficiently high. With upgradeable tickets, more of the available capacity can be reserved for potential customers who are willing to pay a high price for high-end service.

2004: Research Note Contingent Pricing to Reduce Price Risks
Abstract: None

2004: Contingent Pricing to Reduce Price Risks
Abstract: The price for a product may be set too low, causing the seller to leave money on the table, or too high, driving away potential buyers. Contingent pricing can be useful in mitigating these problems. In contingent pricing arrangements, price is contingent on whether the seller succeeds in obtaining a higher price within a specified period. We show that if the probability of obtaining the high price is not too high, sellers profit from using contingent pricing while economic efficiency increases. The optimal contingent pricing structure depends on the buyer's risk attitude-a deep discount is most profitable if buyers are risk prone. A consolation reward is most profitable if buyers are risk averse. To motivate buyers to participate in a contingent pricing arrangement, the seller must provide sufficient incentives. Consequently, buyers also benefit from contingent pricing. In addition, because the buyers with the highest willingness-to-pay get the product, contingent pricing increases the efficiency of resource allocation.

