Recent papers for Eitan Naveh:

2024: Lean Management and Innovation—A Paradox? Reinventing the Role of Problem-Solving Within Organizations
Abstract: Organizations today are faced with the dual imperative of fostering both quality and innovation. The simultaneous pursuit of quality and innovation may introduce a paradox: achieving quality involves the promotion of a lean management climate, characterized by standardization, risk mitigation, waste reduction, and resource efficiency, while innovation necessitates a climate conducive to risk-taking, challenging established norms, accepting potential wastefulness, and allocating resources. We propose that problem-solving that encompasses the identification and resolution of disruptions and challenges can serve as a critical bridge between these two potentially conflicting climates. Results of a survey of 402 employees and their managers working in 53 teams in two organizations (a hospital and a high-tech company) demonstrated that when the level of problem-solving was low, the paradoxical relationship between high lean management and innovation climates impaired the teams’ quality performance. Conversely, under higher levels of problem-solving, high lean management and innovation climates were associated with better quality performance. However, problem-solving did not solve the abovementioned climates’ paradoxical relationship regarding innovation performance, i.e., innovation performance was high when the innovation climate was higher and the lean management climate was lower. Future article and implications for practice are discussed.

2023: Unpacking Errors in Organizations as Processes: Integrating Organizational Research and Operations Management Literature
Abstract: None

2023: Workload and Errors: Utilizing Data Collected Through Sensors in an Outpatient Cancer Facility
Abstract: None

2023: Paradoxical and Dynamic Performance of Lean Practices: Problem Solving, Temporality, and Teams
Abstract: None

2022: Resident physicians’ advice seeking and error making: A social networks approach
Abstract: Background Resident physicians are especially at risk of being involved in medical errors because they bear tremendous responsibility for patient care yet are still in the process of learning and mastering their profession. To increase knowledge and gain information, they create a professional-instrumental network, that is, the deliberate initiation of advice ties with senior physicians. Purpose We aim to explore whether and how residents’ networking with senior physicians is associated with their error rates. Specifically, we aim to identify whether the centralities of residents (advice seekers) and senior physicians (advice givers) in the social network are associated with residents’ error rates. Methodology We surveyed 142 resident physicians working in 22 wards in two general hospitals about whom and how frequently they consult using a sociometric technique. Information about errors made in a 3-month period was collected independently. Results Residents made less errors when they sought advice from few senior physicians but consulted more frequently with focal senior physicians (those whom many other advice seekers frequently consult). However, when residents sought advice from many senior physicians, their frequency of consultation with focal senior physicians was not associated with their number of errors. These effects were more pronounced for residents at the beginning of their residency period. Conclusions Results of this study provide evidence of a specific association between resident physicians’ consultation patterns and their error rates. Practice Implications Results inform ward managers about ways to leverage opportunities and remove constraints for residents to ask for advice and for focal physicians to provide it.

2022: A compassion-centric behavioral agency perspective for organizations in times of crisis
Abstract: None

2021: Asymmetric Association of Resources: Conditions Under Which the Separation and Integration of Idea Generation and Implementation Support Product Innovation
Abstract: This paper examines an alternative view of the use of resources in R&D teams and proposes a way to resolve the dispute between integration versus separation of idea generation and idea implementation concerning the achievement of high levels of product innovation. Contrary to the symmetric approach espoused by earlier studies, the hypotheses here are grounded in the notion that resources have an asymmetric association with idea generation and idea implementation. By asymmetric association we mean that resources have more impact on idea generation than on idea implementation. This paper considers the interactional relationship of two types of resources, time and financial budget, on idea generation and idea implementation. It is based on responses from 214 team members that belong to 40 R&D teams. The results support the existence of an asymmetric mechanism of association between resources and the idea generation and idea implementation climates. Furthermore, they demonstrate that the integration of idea generation and idea implementation is associated with high levels of product innovation when resources are available, while the separation of the two is associated with high levels of product innovation when resources are scarce.

2021: FROM THE EDITORS—Errors in Organizations: New Frontiers in Research and Practice
Abstract: None

2020: Examining innovation in hospital units: a complex adaptive systems approach
Abstract: None

2020: Reliance on small samples and the value of taxing reckless behaviors
Abstract: New technology can be used to enhance safety by imposing costs, or taxes, on certain reckless behaviors. The current paper presents two pre-registered experiments that clarify the impact of taxation of this type on decisions from experience between three alternatives. Experiment 1 focuses on an environment in which safe choices maximize expected returns and examines the impact of taxing the more attractive of two risky options. The results reveal a U-shaped effect of taxation: some taxation improves safety, but too much taxation impairs safety. Experiment 2 shows a clear negative effect of high taxation even when the taxation eliminates the expected benefit from risk-taking. Comparison of alternative models suggests that taxing reckless behaviors backfires when it significantly increases the proportion of experiences in which a more dangerous behavior leads to better outcomes than the taxed behavior. Qualitative hypotheses derived from naïve sampling models assuming small samples were only partially supported by the data.

2019: Coping with Errors in Organizations: Challenges, Opportunities, and Frontiers for Operations Management Research
Abstract: Coping with Errors in Organizations: Challenges, Opportunities, and Frontiers for Operations Management Research

2019: Managing Creativity and Process Tensions in Innovation
Abstract: The aim of this article is to assist in understanding and balancing the tension between creativity and process management activities to achieve high levels of product innovation. We propose a way to resolve the dispute between integration versus separation of creativity and process management activities. Availability of resources in research and development teams is one of the most important aspects of this tension.

2019: Competition and Complementation of Exploration and Exploitation and the Achievement of Radical Innovation: The Moderating Effect of Learning Behavior and Promotion Focus
Abstract: We aim to address inconsistencies in the research literature on whether exploration and exploitation compete with or complement each other in their effect on radically innovative team outcomes. This study takes into consideration the moderating effect of team learning behavior, which includes seeking or providing feedback, sharing information and elaborating task-relevant information, and team promotion focus, which refers to the motivation for innovation. Using results obtained from 108 research and development teams from six high-tech organizations, our findings show two ways to achieve radical innovation performance. Both are characterized by a high level of exploration; however, the level of exploitation and of learning behavior in each of them is either high or low. Against our expectations, promotion focus does not modify the effect of exploration and exploitation on radical innovation performance. While promotion focus is usually assumed to be positively associated with team innovation, we counterintuitively show that when the level of exploration is high, a low (compared to high) level of promotion focus leads to increased radical innovation.

2019: Patient Safety And Other Priorities.
Abstract: None

2019: Frontiers of Team and Teaming Research: Discovering New Directions and Opportunities
Abstract: None

2019: The toll of service climate on employees: an emotional labor perspective
Abstract: The existing research on service climate emphasizes its benefits for customers, employees and organizational outcomes. Service climate translates into organizational expectations from service employees to continuously show appropriate emotions when engaging with clients. However, these expectations may also take a toll on employees, who need to regulate their emotions using emotional labor strategies in order to conform to the organization’s expectations. Hence, the purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between the service climate and employees’ use of emotional labor strategies, and investigate how service employees’ service knowledge, skills, abilities and other attributes (KSAOs) affect this relationship.,In two separate studies, one with a sample including 100 nurses working in 15 wards, and the other comprised of 244 luxury hotel chain employees working in 39 departments, participants were surveyed about their perceptions of the service climate and their use of emotional labor strategies. In addition, each participant’s direct manager assessed his/her service KSAOs.,Results demonstrated a positive association between the service climate and the use of surface emotional labor strategies for employees who had limited service KSAOs.,Organizations may choose to hire service employees based on their service-related KSAOs and develop training and development programs for those who have fewer capabilities in these areas. In addition, organizations may want to rethink the traditional climate-induced emotional display rules and emphasize instead more authentic service encounters in order to lessen the toll that service climate takes on certain employees.,While service climate depicts the core values and beliefs of the organization about service, and helps employees to translate them into behaviors that promote high service performance, the current paper points to a potential toll it may have on employees well-being due to their use of surface emotional labor strategies.

2018: Stuck Between Two Lives: The Paradox of Eliminating and Welcoming Errors
Abstract: Medical errors are a recurring fact in health care organizations. The importance of mitigating and learning from these errors is incontrovertible. Prevailing practices in health care organizations convincingly argue for a “both-and” approach to this goal, meaning that, in a perfect world, heath care professionals may simultaneously eliminate and welcome (and thus learn from) errors. Yet health care organizations that do well on both accounts are extraordinarily rare. Some health care policymakers, administrators, caregivers, and researchers believe that this problem stems from a lack of commitment to patient safety or insufficient implementation of such “both-and” practices. We challenge this reasoning and suggest that both organizational goodwill and implementation difficulties constitute simplistic explanations. In our opinion, health care challenges are strongly grounded in the current state of the error literature that promotes a “both-and” approach.

2018: Process standardization and error reduction: A revisit from a choice approach
Abstract: None

2018: The Error Dilemma in Teams: Goal Orientations, Information Elaboration, and Team Errors
Abstract: A team composition including two types of individuals – one focused on error avoidance and the other on learning – has been assumed to be optimal for minimizing team errors. We, however, propose th...

2018: Employee safety priority: When is the rate of work-related driving accidents lower?
Abstract: We challenge the employee safety theory using an ambidexterity lens. We investigate which situation leads to a lower number of work-related road accidents: a single-priority situation focused on road safety, or a dual-priority situation in which both road safety and customer service are priorities. Employee safety theory puts forward an ‘either-or’ approach in which employee safety must be the first priority above and beyond all others. In contrast, the ambidexterity theory’s ‘both\and’ approach suggests a simultaneously coexistence of priorities. We bridge this gap between the theories by referring to the type of relationship that exists between distinct and contradictory priorities. A ‘both\and’ relationship is associated with best performance when the priorities are interdependent and mutually enabling. However, if the relationship between priorities is of a preventive nature, as in the case of safety and customer service, the ‘either-or’ approach is associated with better performance. Thus, we hypothe...

