Recent papers for Epstein Ariel:

2023: Anisotropic Metagratings for Simultaneous Polarization Conversion and Anomalous Reflection
Abstract: We present a semi-analytical framework for designing highly efficient polarization and wavefront manipulating metagratings (MGs). The required anisotropy is achieved by introducing rotated dipole scatterer lines as meta-atoms in these sparse periodic composites, using an extended analytical model to capture the polarized near- and far-field interactions between the elements. By tying the MG degrees of freedom, namely, the meta-atom rotation angle, position, and induced current, to the scattered fields, this model enables resolution of the MG configuration that would realize a given (desirable) combined polarization conversion and anomalous reflection. This approach, verified in commercial solvers, presents an appealing alternative for tensor metasurfaces typically utilized to realize such functionalities, featuring simpler meta-atoms, sparser designs, and minimal reliance on full-wave optimizations. These results further augment the range of MG-based solutions, marking an important milestone towards achieving a complete control of scattered fields via this platform.

2023: Large-Aperture Cavity-Excited Metagrating Antennas for Dynamic Beam Switching
Abstract: We present a theoretical approach to devise mul- tiport cavity-excited switched-beam antennas, based on the re-cent concept of metagratings (MGs - sparse arrangements of polarizable particles designed via detailed tailoring of mutual coupling). The discrete nature of the cavity eigenmode basis enables extension of the standard (semianalytical) MG design procedure to allow application of multiple constraints on the same passive composite. Consequently, the static MG is designed to yield a different set of eignemondes on the aperture in response to excitation of different sources (input ports), leading to radiation towards different angles. As verified via commercial solvers, this full-wave-optimization-free scheme yields large-aperture antenna devices with high aperture illumination efficiencies for each of the designated radiation states, providing a simple path to realize dynamic beam steering, especially useful at high frequencies.

2023: Cavity-Excited Switched-Beam Metagrating Antennas
Abstract: We present a semianalytical scheme to design cavityexcited switched-beam antennas based on printed-circuit-board (PCB) metagratings (MGs), sparse arrays of subwavelength scatterrers (meta-atoms) synthesized via accurate tailoring of mutual coupling. Multiple simple sources embedded in the cavity serve as excitations for a passive multilayered multielement MG superstrate, designed to generate different radiation patterns in response to each of the source ports. The developed synthesis approach utilizes the cavity eigenmode expansion of the source and radiation fields to realize the desired aperture field distribution (and consequently the target radiation patterns). To validate our model and methodology, a switched-beam antenna with three sources is designed and verified in full-wave simulations, exhibiting aperture illumination efficiencies superseding 90% for all three radiation states. This work offers effective and versatile means to implement high-directivity steerable antennas without nonlinear components, especially useful for high-frequency regimes expected in future communication systems.

2023: REFLECTIONLESS ANOMALOUS REFRACTION OFTHZ BEAMS WITH A MULTI-LAYER METAL-POLYMER HUYGENS'METASURFACE
Abstract: None

2023: Physical Implementation of Leaky-Wave Antenna with Engineered Aperture Distribution Based on Bianisotropic Huygens Metasurfaces
Abstract: A methodology based on omega-type bianisotropic Huygens’ metasurfaces is presented to control the aperture field distribution of leaky-wave antennas. The studied structure is a parallel-plate waveguide with the top plate replaced by a metasurface. Previous works achieved independent control of the phase constant and the leakage factor, but they were constrained to be constant. The required theoretical extensions to overcome this limitation are presented in this work, thus enabling the design of arbitrary radiation patterns. A slowly varying amplitude approximation approach is employed to satisfy Maxwell’s wave equation and obtain the relation between the horizontal and vertical wavenumbers. In addition, a semianalytical algorithm able to predict near-field coupling effects is applied in the microscopic design of the metasurface unit cells. Two designs are carried out with real unit cells, presenting different aperture configurations. Finally, electromagnetic simulations validate the methodology with an excellent agreement without any further full-wave optimization.

2023: Low-Cost Metagratings for Efficient Anomalous Reflection
Abstract: We develop a rigorous scheme for designing effective metagratings (MGs), sparse composites of subwavelength polarizable particles (meta-atoms), based on low-cost dielectric substrates featuring non-negligible losses. To this end, the common analytical model governing these devices is adapted to consider lossy substrates, and additional degrees of freedom are introduced in order to enhance the device performance. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach by designing a FR4-based anomalous reflection MG, verified via full-wave simulations. These results pave the path to the realization of efficient beam manipulating low-profile constructs with reduced cost, harnessing the high-fidelity analytical model to provide insight and point out practical avenues to overcome loss limitations in diverse material sets across the electromagnetic spectrum.

2022: Power-flow Conformal Metasurfaces for Transmissive Beam Splitting
Abstract: Omega bianisotropic metasurfaces (MSs) are invaluable for wave control. However, an impediment to their general deployment is the requirement that the power flow be locally conserved across the surface. Attempts to achieve this have included introduction of auxiliary fields in the solution, the determination of which is often nontrivial. Power-flow conformal MSs have been shown to mitigate this need by judicious deformation of the surface profile. Facilitated by our recently proposed Fabry-Perot MS platform, we provide insight herein into the validity of this concept for transmissive electromagnetic beam manipulation. As verified via full-wave simulations for asymmetric beam splitting, such configurations could readily implement nonlocal field transformations, paving the path to perfect field molding in transmission.

2022: Multimodal antireflective coatings for perfecting anomalous reflection from arbitrary periodic structures
Abstract: Metasurfaces possess vast wave-manipulation capabilities, including reflection and refraction of a plane wave into non-standard directions. This requires meticulously-designed sub-wavelength meta-atoms in each period of the metasurface which guarantee unitary coupling to the desired Floquet-Bloch mode or, equivalently, suppression of the coupling to other modes. Herein, we propose an entirely different scheme to achieve such suppression, alleviating the need to devise and realize such dense scrupulously-engineered polarizable particles. Extending the concept of anti-reflective coatings to enable simultaneous manipulation of multiple modes, we show theoretically and experimentally that a simple superstrate consisting of only several uniform dielectric layers can be modularly applied to \textit{aribtrary} periodic structures to yield perfect anomalous reflection. This multimodal anti-reflective coating (MARC), designed based on an analytical model, presents a conceptually and practically simpler paradigm for wave-control across a wide range of physical branches, from electromagnetics and acoustics to seismics and beyond.

2022: Systematic Design of Metasurface Angular Filters
Abstract: We present a systematic methodology for synthesizing metasurface (MS) angular filters, which are beneficial for improving antenna radiation patterns: by deriving a convenient rational-function form for the reflection coefficient, we facilitate efficient and flexible design of such devices. We validate our framework via full-wave simulations by devising all-pass angular filters with tunable phase featuring rigorously designed physical MS inclusions. Our results pave the path towards complete control over the angular response of MSs, from theory to practice.

2022: High-Directivity Ultra-Sparse Antenna Arrays Using Multielement Metagratings
Abstract: We present a rigorous analytical model utilized to design highly-sparse antenna arrays, taking advantage of the recent concept of metagratings (MGs). The proposed semian-alytical methodology, avoiding full-wave optimization, enables replacement of the generally-large number of active radiating elements with passive capacitively-loaded wires (meta-atoms), without sacrificing array directivity. Contrary to common techniques to dilute arrays, relying mostly on optimization of active element distribution and excitation, our modular solution utilizes a standard array configuration with linearly-phased elements; grating-lobe suppression is achieved by proper engineering of the passive MG, harnessing Floquet-Bloch formalism to control power partition into diffraction orders. To facilitate dramatic dilution and comply with printed-circuit-board (PCB) design requirements, we extend our previous work, enabling inclusion of multiple meta-atoms per period within a multilayered dielectric substrate. This concept, verified via full-wave simulations, is expected to facilitate the development of low-cost, planar, low-loss, and highly-directive antenna systems for future cellular and satellite communication.

2022: Large-Period Multichannel Metagratings For Broad-Angle Absorption
Abstract: We present an alternative scheme for obtaining effective power dissipation in planar composites, extending the recently proposed concept of metagrating (MGs), sparse arrangements of polarizable particles (meta-atoms), to realize multifunctional absorbers. In contrast to typical metasurface solutions, where periodicities are limited to half of a wavelength at most to avoid high-order Floquet-Bloch modes, we purposely consider large-period MGs, relying on their proven ability to effectively mitigate spurious scattering. The absorption process is thus implemented via precise engineering of the mutual coupling between numerous individual scatterers fitting in the enlarged period, with these additional degrees of freedom further utilized to enforce the perfect absorption conditions for multiple excitation angles simultaneously. The resultant devices, utilizing a standard printed circuit board configuration obtained semianalytically while featuring relaxed fabrication demands, exhibit high absorption across a wide angular range, useful for radar cross section reduction and energy harvesting applications.

2022: Metagrating-Assisted High-Directivity Sparse Regular Antenna Arrays for Scanning Applications
Abstract: We present an analytical scheme for designing metagrating (MG)-enhanced sparse antenna arrays. Unlike previous work, the proposed method does not involve time-consuming cost function optimizations, complex structural manipulations on the active array, or demanding computational capabilities. Instead, it merely requires the integration of a passive MG superstrate, a planar periodic arrangement of subwavelength capacitively loaded wires (meta-atoms), synthesized conveniently via a semianalytical procedure to guarantee suppression of grating lobes in the sparse configuration. Correspondingly, we extend previous formulations to enable excitation of the MG by the active array elements, deriving analytical relations connecting the passive and active element distribution and electrical properties with the scattered fields, eventually allowing resolution of the detailed device configuration leading to optimal directivity. Importantly, considering typical active array applications, the semianalytical synthesis scheme is further developed to take full advantage of the various degrees of freedom in the system, harnessing them to support scanning in a wide range of extreme angles while maintaining a single directive beam. The resultant methodology, verified in simulations to work well also for large finite arrays, offers an original path for mitigating grating lobes in sparse arrays with scanning capabilities, yielding a complete printed-circuit-board (PCB) compatible design without relying on full-wave optimization.

2022: Guest Editorial Special Cluster on Functionalized Metasurface-Based Covers and Unconventional Domes for Dynamic Antenna Systems
Abstract: Domes for antenna systems typically aim at protecting antenna arrays from the influence of outside environment, and their design is mainly driven by the minimization of its impact on the electrical and radiating performances of the antenna system, leading to domes as electromagnetically transparent as possible in the operative angular and frequency bandwidth. However, the inevitable interaction between antenna and dome may represent an interesting opportunity for increasing the dynamic performances of the antenna system. In this scenario, metasurfaces have demonstrated to exhibit the capability to mold the phase-fronts, amplitude profile or frequency of the interacting field, thanks to their engineerable surface properties in space and time domain. Such artificial surfaces can be used to build antenna domes with prescribed electromagnetic behaviors and even with new features such as the property of being tunable or switchable, thus resulting in a new class of devices: metasurface-enhanced covers or “metadomes”. The aim of every metadome is two-fold: to protect the antenna system from the environment and to engineer new radiating and electrical performances of the antenna without the need to redesign the antenna system.

2022: An Optimization of Impedance-Modulated Passive and Lossless Metasurfaces for Expansion of a Gaussian Beam
Abstract: We study a reflectionless transformation of an incident Gaussian beam in which the transmitted beam increases its waist. A 2D problem is solved analytically and numerically. The incident beam is diffracted on a synthesized spatially-modulated omega-bianisotropic meta-surface. The electric impedance, magnetic admittance, and magnetoelectric coupling coefficient were obtained using numerical optimization based on analytical formulas assuming evanescent surface waves propagating over the metasurface. In two examples with different output beam widths, the optimization results were verified by full-wave simulations with a transmission efficiency of over 90% for a triple-impedance-layer representation of the structure. The proposed approach could be used efficiently to provide any other output beam profile if it satisfies the local power conservation principle.

2022: Broad-Angle Multichannel Metagrating Diffusers
Abstract: We present a semianalytical scheme for the design of broad-angle multichannel metagratings (MGs), sparse periodic arrangements of loaded conducting strips (meta-atoms), embedded in a multilayer printed circuit board (PCB) configuration. By judicious choice of periodicity and angles of incidence, scattering off such an MG can be described via a multiport network, where the input and output ports correspond to different illumination and reflection directions associated with the same set of propagating Floquet–Bloch (FB) modes. Since each of these possible scattering scenarios can be modeled analytically, constraints can be conveniently applied on the modal reflection coefficients (scattering matrix entries) to yield a diffusive response, which, when resolved, produce the required MG geometry. We show that by demanding a symmetric MG configuration, the number of independent S parameters can be dramatically reduced, enabling satisfaction of multiple such constraints using a single sparse MG. Without any full-wave optimization, this procedure results in a fabrication-ready layout of a multichannel MG, enabling retroreflection suppression and diffusive scattering from numerous angles of incidence simultaneously. This concept, verified experimentally via a five-channel MG prototype, offers an innovative solution to both monostatic and bistatic radar cross Section (RCS) reduction, avoiding design and implementation challenges associated with dense metasurfaces used for this purpose.

2022: Metagrating-Assisted High-Directivity Sparse Antenna Arrays For Scanning Applications
Abstract: We present an analytical scheme for designing metagrating-enhanced sparse antenna arrays. Unlike previous work, the proposed method does not involve time-consuming cost function optimizations, complex structural manipulations on the active array or demanding computational capabilities. Instead, it merely requires the integration of a passive metagrating (MG) superstrate, a planar periodic arrangement of subwavelength capacitively-loaded wires (meta-atoms), synthesized conveniently via a semianalytical procedure to guarantee suppression of grating lobes in the sparse configuration. Correspondingly, we extend previous formulations to enable excitation of the MG by the active array elements, deriving analytical relations connecting the passive and active element distribution and electrical properties with the scattered fields, eventually allowing resolution of the detailed device configuration leading to optimal directivity. Importantly, considering typical active array applications, the semianalytical synthesis scheme is further developed to take full advantage of the various degrees of freedom in the system, harnessing them to support scanning in a wide range of extreme angles while maintaining a single directive beam. The resultant methodology, verified in simulations to work well also for large finite arrays, offers an original path for mitigating grating lobes in sparse arrays with scanning capabilities, yielding a complete printed-circuit-board compatible design without relying on fullwave optimization.

2021: Dynamic Beam Switching with Shiftable Multimodal Anti-Reflective Coatings
Abstract: The implementation of non-specular reflection, generally referred to as perfect anomalous reflection, has been the realm of complex periodic metasurfaces consisting of multiple, painstakingly-designed meta-atoms. It has recently been shown that similar effects can be obtained from a basic periodic surface (BPS) with arbitrary properties, coated with several uniform dielectric layers which serve as a multimodal anti-reflective coating (MARC). In spite of its simplicity, the BPS-MARC combination can be easily designed to suppress all components of the discrete propagating Floquet-Bloch (FB) spectrum except the one in the design direction of interest. We show herein that the design direction of the reflected beam can be controlled by simply shifting the MARC relative to the BPS with the aid, for example, of a piezoelectric actuator. Such control enables dynamic beam switching from one radiation angle to another with almost-perfect efficiency. The MARC layers for this purpose are designed analytically and verified by full-wave computations, thus providing a new and conceptually simple method of efficient wave control in real time, highly useful for signal rerouting and multiplexing in reconfigurable antenna systems.

2021: Coated Phase-Gradient Metasurfaces for Perfect Anomalous Reflection
Abstract: Periodic phase-gradient metasurfaces (PGM) have been successfully used to produce anomalous reflection and refraction for small and moderate bending angles, but are not capable of efficiently producing wide-angle effects. For anomalous reflection, this limitation is overcome herein by coating the PGM with layered slabs of homogeneous (non-periodic) dielectrics, which serve to suppress the unwanted Floquet components of the scattered field. The required slab-widths of these multi-directional anti-reflective coatings (MDARC) are analytically determined for given dielectric constants, and their effects are verified by full-wave calculations. The PGMMDARC combination provides a surprisingly simple structure for perfect anomalous reflection.

2021: Perfect Power Splitting in Waveguide Junctions Using a Metagrating-Inspired Methodology
Abstract: We propose a semi-analytical, metagrating-inspired technique to eliminate reflection loss in a symmetrical three-channel H-plane waveguide junction, achieving seamless power splitting. As in metagratings, sparse periodic arrays of subwave-length scatterers (meta-atoms), the solution is devised by judicious engineering of the meta-atom distribution, relying on modal analysis and systematic formulation of constraints. Herein, we use a mode-matching-based technique to calculate the structure’s power scattering coefficients and find an appropriate location at which a passive polarizable element may be placed to suppress spurious reflections. Subsequently, a proper geometry for this scatterer is found using a simple parametric sweep in a full-wave solver. The presented methodology is demonstrated and verified via full-wave simulations, using a metallic post to realize the meta-atom. This reliable scheme, yielding a simple solution based on a semi-analytical model, serves as an appealing alternative to current design procedures, which commonly require intricate formations or a specific split angle.

2021: Semianalytically Designed, Transverse Magnetic, Printed Circuit Board Metagratings
Abstract: We propose a novel printed-circuit-board (PCB) compatible configuration for transverse magnetic (TM) polarized metagratings (MG), followed by a semianalytical design method. These sparse periodic arrangements of subwavelength polarizable particles are typically designed using detailed Floquet-Bloch-based analytical models, yielding fabricationready configurations exhibiting prescribed scattering patterns. To advance these models beyond single-polarized MGs demonstrated so far, we utilize dog-bone metallic elements to facilitate interaction with TM waves, and show that the canonical dipole line model can be used to analyze and synthesize such MGs. We demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed methodology by designing perfect MG beam splitters, verified via full-wave simulations. These results lay the grounds for complete semianalytical design of dual polarized PCB MGs.

