Recent papers for Feuer Arie:

2021: Joint Optimization of System Design and Reconstruction in MIMO Radar Imaging
Abstract: Multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) radar is one of the leading depth sensing modalities. However, the usage of multiple receive channels lead to relative high costs and prevent the penetration of MIMOs in many areas such as the automotive industry. Over the last years, few studies concentrated on designing reduced measurement schemes and image reconstruction schemes for MIMO radars, however these problems have been so far addressed separately. On the other hand, recent works in optical computational imaging have demonstrated growing success of simultaneous learning-based design of the acquisition and reconstruction schemes, manifesting significant improvement in the reconstruction quality. Inspired by these successes, in this work, we propose to learn MIMO acquisition parameters in the form of receive (Rx) antenna elements locations jointly with an image neural-network based reconstruction. To this end, we propose an algorithm for training the combined acquisition-reconstruction pipeline end-to-end in a differentiable way. We demonstrate the significance of using our learned acquisition parameters with and without the neural-network reconstruction. Code and datasets will be released upon publication.

2020: Deep Learning Applied to Beamforming in Synthetic Aperture Ultrasound
Abstract: Deep learning methods can be found in many medical imaging applications. Recently, those methods were applied directly to the RF ultrasound multi-channel data to enhance the quality of the reconstructed images. In this paper, we apply a deep neural network to medical ultrasound imaging in the beamforming stage. Specifically, we train the network using simulated multi-channel data from two arrays with different sizes, using a variety of direction of arrival (DOA) angles, and test its generalization performance on real cardiac data. We demonstrate that our method can be used to improve image quality over standard methods, both in terms of resolution and contrast. Alternatively, it can be used to reduce the number of elements in the array, while maintaining the image quality. The utility of our method is demonstrated on both simulated and real data.

2017: Sampled Data Systems
Abstract: None

2016: An efficient method to measure reliability of underwater acoustic communication links
Abstract: None

2016: Individualization of stochastic models from population statistics for blood glucose regulation in Type 1 diabetes patients
Abstract: This paper shows how a stochastic model for Type 1 diabetes with parameters relevant to a class of individuals can be specialized to a particular patient using Bayesian Inference.

2016: Component-Based Modeling and Processing of Medical Ultrasound Signals
Abstract: Component-based modeling and processing can be found in many signal and image processing applications. In this paper, we apply this approach to cardiac medical ultrasound imaging. We show how the raw data generated in the ultrasound scanning process can be modeled as consisting of two distinct components. By decomposing these signals into the two components, we are able to apply separate processing pipelines tailored to each component. The potential benefits of this approach to medical ultrasound imaging are demonstrated in two central issues of the commonly used processing: 1) the very large amounts of data generated by the scanning process, and 2) artifacts in the images and videos generated by standard processing, commonly referred to as side lobe artifacts. We manage to compress the data by a factor of over 20 as well as remove the side lobe artifacts. These benefits are demonstrated on both simulated data and real cardiac scanning data.

2015: Stable Support Recovery of Stream of Pulses With Application to Ultrasound Imaging
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of estimating the delays of a weighted superposition of pulses, called stream of pulses, in a noisy environment. We show that the delays can be estimated using a tractable convex optimization problem with a localization error proportional to the square root of the noise level. Furthermore, all false detections produced by the algorithm have small amplitudes. Numerical and in-vitro ultrasound experiments corroborate the theoretical results and demonstrate their applicability for the ultrasound imaging signal processing.

2015: Decomposition-Based Compression of Ultrasound Raw-Data
Abstract: None

2015: Multi-line transmission combined with minimum variance beamforming in medical ultrasound imaging
Abstract: Increasing medical ultrasound imaging frame rate is important in several applications such as cardiac diagnostic imaging, where it is desirable to be able to examine the temporal behavior of fast phases in the cardiac cycle. This is particularly true in 3-D imaging, where current frame rate is still much slower than standard 2-D, B-mode imaging. Recently, a method that increases frame rate, labeled multi-line transmission (MLT), was reintroduced and analyzed. In MLT scanning, the transmission is simultaneously focused at several directions. This scan mode introduces artifacts that stem from the overlaps of the receive main lobe with the transmit side lobes of additional transmit directions besides the one of interest. Similar overlaps occur between the transmit main lobe with receive side lobes. These artifacts are known in the signal processing community as cross-talk. Previous studies have concentrated on proper transmit and receive apodization, as well as transmit directions arrangement in the transmit event, to reduce the cross-talk artifacts. This study examines the possibility of using adaptive beamforming, specifically, minimum variance (MV) and linearly constrained minimum variance (LCMV) beamforming, to reduce the cross-talk artifacts, and maintain or even improve image quality characteristics. Simulation results, as well as experimental phantom and in vivo cardiac data, demonstrate the feasibility of reducing cross-talk artifacts with MV beamforming. The MV and LCMV results achieve superior spatial resolution, not only over other MLT methods with data-independent apodization, but even over that of single-line transmission (SLT) without receive apodization. The MV beamformer is shown to be less sensitive to wider transmit profiles required to reduce the transmit crosstalk artifacts. MV beamforming, combined with the wider transmit profiles, can provide a good approach for MLT scanning with reduced cross-talk artifacts, without compromising spatial resolution, and even improving it. We also demonstrate that the MV and LCMV beamformers lead to almost identical results. This is because of their very similar beampatterns, except for the sharp nullifying properties that the LCMV beamformer has around interfering beams.

2015: Unified convex optimization approach to super-resolution based on localized kernels
Abstract: The problem of resolving the fine details of a signal from its coarse scale measurements or, as it is commonly referred to in the literature, the super-resolution problem arises naturally in engineering and physics in a variety of settings. We suggest a unified convex optimization approach for super-resolution. The key is the construction of an interpolating polynomial in the measurements space based on localized kernels. We also show that the localized kernels act as the connecting thread to another wide-spread problem of stream of pulses.

2014: On the use of one bit quantizers in networked control
Abstract: None

2014: Sparse Sampling in Helical Cone-Beam CT Perfect Reconstruction Algorithms
Abstract: In the current paper we consider the Helical Cone Beam CT. This scanning method exposes the patient to large quantities of radiation and results in very large amounts of data being collected and stored. Both these facts are prime motivators for the development of an efficient, reduced rate, sampling pattern. We calculate bounds on the support in the frequency domain of the collected data and use these to suggest an efficient sampling pattern. A reduction of up to a factor of 2 in sampling rate is suggested. Indeed, we show that reconstruction quality is not affected by this reduction of sampling rates.

2014: Robust Recovery of Stream of Pulses using Convex Optimization
Abstract: None

2014: On the Control Rate versus Quantizer-Resolution Trade Off in Networked Control
Abstract: Abstract This paper addresses the control-rate versus quantizer-resolution trade-off in networked control. The case presented considers the situation where the bit rate between controller and plant is constrained to a fixed number of bits per unit of time and an underlying fixed fast sampling rate is deployed to take measurements. However, a variable control update rate can be used between the controller and the plant. Inspired by the practical problem of inner loop power control in WCDMA, we assume the plant is an integrator. This assumption covers more general plants when fast sampling is used. Also, a restricted architecture in which linear filters are used for the encoder/decoder is considered and a quantizer with linear feedback is deployed. These choices give maximal insights into the underlying problem. It is shown that, in this case, it is best to use one bit per sample, in which case, the control update frequency is equal to the bit rate.

2014: Exact recovery of non-uniform splines from the projection onto spaces of algebraic polynomials
Abstract: None

2014: Exact Recovery of Dirac Ensembles from the Projection Onto Spaces of Spherical Harmonics
Abstract: None

2014: Adaptive Identification and Recovery of Jointly Sparse Vectors
Abstract: In this paper we present a novel approach to the solution of a sequence of SMV problems with a joint support. This type of problem arises in a number of applications such as multiband signal reconstruction and source localization. The approach we present is adaptive in that it solves it as a sequence of weighted SMV problems rather than collecting the measurement vectors and solving an MMV problem. The weights are adaptively updated from one instance to the next. This approach avoids delays and large memory requirements (at the cost of increased computational load) with the added capability of tracking changes in joint signal supports.

2014: Exact Recovery of Dirac Ensembles from the Projection Onto Spaces of Spherical Harmonics
Abstract: None

2014: Super-Resolution on the Sphere Using Convex Optimization
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of recovering an ensemble of Diracs on a sphere from its low resolution measurements. The Diracs can be located at any location on the sphere, not necessarily on a grid. We show that under a separation condition, one can recover the ensemble with high precision by a three-stage algorithm, which consists of solving a semi-definite program, root finding and least-square fitting. The algorithm's computation time depends solely on the number of measurements, and not on the required solution accuracy. We also show that in the special case of non-negative ensembles, a sparsity condition is sufficient for recovery. Furthermore, in the discrete setting, we estimate the recovery error in the presence of noise as a function of the noise level and the super-resolution factor.

2013: On-line quantization in nonlinear filtering
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel approach to nonlinear filtering utilizing on-line quantization. We develop performance bounds for the algorithm. We also present an example which illustrates the performance of the method.

