2024: Frontiers in Operations: Waiting Experience in Open-Shop Service Networks: Improvements via Flow Analytics and Automation
Abstract: None

2024: Asymmetries of Service: Interdependence and Synchronicity
Abstract: On many dimensions, services can be seen to exist along spectra measuring the degree of interaction between customer and agent. For instance, every interaction features some number of contributions by each of the two sides, creating a spectrum of interdependence. Additionally, each interaction is further characterized by the pacing of these contributions, implying a spectrum of synchronicity. Where a service falls on such spectra can simply be a consequence of its design, but it can also be a function of its state. As broadly evidenced empirically, an agent with several concurrent interactions will be slowed in each individual interaction, altering the service's synchronicity. Here, we study a Hawkes cluster model of the customer-agent interaction, which we show captures both of these service (a)symmetries. We find insightful connections to behavioral operations, such as proving the occurrence of non-monotonic performance (e.g., inverted-U throughput) from concurrency-driven asynchrony. Hence, we can prescribe the agent's optimal concurrency level. Furthermore, we show how the service design dictates the efficacy of these operational improvements, proving that the concurrency-optimized throughput is itself non-monotonic as a function of the interdependence. In what may be of independent interest methodologically, we establish an interpretable decomposition for Hawkes clusters via probabilistic combinatorics.

2023: Preface to the Special Issue on Behavioral Queueing Science: The Need for a Multidisciplinary Approach
Abstract: Preface to the Special Issue on Behavioral Queueing Science: The Need for a Multidisciplinary Approach Modern service systems are economically important but operationally complex. In “Preface to the Special Issue on Behavioral Queueing Science: The Need for a Multidisciplinary Approach,” Ingolfsson, Mandelbaum, Schultz, and Yom-Tov discuss how this special issue advances the scientific study of queues in services systems by acknowledging the central role of human behavior. Behavioral queueing science requires a multidisciplinary approach, using tools that include mathematical modelling, lab experiments and field studies. Each discipline has strengths and weaknesses, but together they have complementing goals, and jointly they give rise to a scientific paradigm for behavioral queues. Cross-disciplinary work is challenging but necessary. The eleven papers in our special issue show how this can be done successfully while setting an example for future work.

2023: Decision control and explanations in human-AI collaboration: Improving user perceptions and compliance
Abstract: None

2023: Silent Abandonment in Contact Centers: Estimating Customer Patience from Uncertain Data
Abstract: In the quest to improve services, companies offer customers the opportunity to interact with agents through contact centers, where the communication is mainly text-based. This has become one of the favorite channels of communication with companies in recent years. However, contact centers face operational challenges, since the measurement of common proxies for customer experience, such as knowledge of whether customers have abandoned the queue and their willingness to wait for service (patience), are subject to information uncertainty. We focus this research on the impact of a main source of such uncertainty: silent abandonment by customers. These customers leave the system while waiting for a reply to their inquiry, but give no indication of doing so, such as closing the mobile app of the interaction. As a result, the system is unaware that they have left and waste agent time and capacity until this fact is realized. In this paper, we show that 30%-67% of the abandoning customers abandon the system silently, and that such customer behavior reduces system efficiency by 5%-15%. To do so, we develop methodologies to identify silent-abandonment customers in two types of contact centers: chat and messaging systems. We first use text analysis and an SVM model to estimate the actual abandonment level. We then use a parametric estimator and develop an expectation-maximization algorithm to estimate customer patience accurately, as customer patience is an important parameter for fitting queueing models to the data. We show how accounting for silent abandonment in a queueing model improves dramatically the estimation accuracy of key measures of performance. Finally, we suggest strategies to operationally cope with the phenomenon of silent abandonment.

2023: Affect-as-Information: Customer and Employee Affective Displays as Expeditious Predictors of Customer Satisfaction
Abstract: This study introduces affect-as-information theory to the service encounter, integrates it with the peak and end model of affect, and thereby shows that these dynamic customer and employee affective displays can be used to estimate post-encounter customer satisfaction. A large-scale dataset of 23,645 real-life text-based (i.e., chat) service encounters with a total of 301,280 genuine messages written by customers and employees were used to test our hypotheses. Automatic sentiment analysis was deployed to assess the affective displays of customers and employees in every individual text message as a service encounter unfolded. Our findings confirm that in addition to customers’ overall (mean) affective display, peak (i.e., highest positive or least negative), and end (final) affective displays explain customer satisfaction. Further, as customer displays may not fully capture their satisfaction process and employees understand the service quality they deliver, we propose and confirm that employee displayed affect explains further variance in customer satisfaction. We also find that the predictive power of affective displays is more pronounced in service failure than non-failure encounters. Together, these findings show that automatic monitoring beyond customer overall affect (i.e., adding customer peak and end, and employee affective displays) can expedite the evaluation of customer satisfaction.

2023: Markov Process Simulations of Service Systems with Concurrent Hawkes Service Interactions
Abstract: In multi-tasked services such as in messaging-based contact centers, parallel service interactions share a mutual dependence through the agent’s concurrency. Here, we introduce Markov process simulation methods for bivariate Hawkes cluster service models that are not Markovian by default due to their concurrency dependence. To do so, we propose an alternate construction that maintains extra "shadow" variables for how the process would be under other concurrency levels. We prove that this construction yields an equivalent Markov process, and we show through numerical experiments that its corresponding simulation algorithm is significantly more efficient than the non-Markovian alternatives.

2022: Integrating emotional load into service operations
Abstract: None

2022: Integrating emotional load into service operations
Abstract: None

2022: Reducing Abandonment and Improving Attitudes in Emergency Departments: Integrating Delay Announcements into Operational Transparency to Signal Service Quality
Abstract: None

2022: State-Dependent Estimation of Delay Distributions in Fork-Join Networks
Abstract: Problem definition: Delay announcements have become an essential tool in service system operations: They influence customer behavior and network efficiency. Most current delay announcement methods are designed for relatively simple environments with a single service station or stations in tandem. However, complex service systems, such as healthcare systems, often have fork-join (FJ) structures. Such systems usually suffer from long delays as a result of both resource scarcity and process synchronization, even when queues are fairly short. These systems may thus require more accurate delay estimation techniques than currently available. Methodology/results: We analyze a network comprising a single-server queue followed by a two-station FJ structure using a recursive construction of the Laplace–Stieltjes transform of the joint delay distribution, conditioning on customers’ movements in the network. Delay estimations are made at the time of arrival to the first station. Using data from an emergency department, we examine the accuracy and the robustness of the proposed approach, explore different model structures, and draw insights regarding the conditions under which the FJ structure should be explicitly modeled. We provide evidence that the proposed methodology is better than other commonly used queueing theory estimators such as last-to-enter-service (which is based on snapshot-principle arguments) and queue length, and we replicate previous results showing that the most accurate estimations are obtained when using our model result as a feature in state-of-the-art machine learning estimation methods. Managerial implications: Our results allow management to implement individual, real-time, state-dependent delay announcements in complex FJ networks. We also provide rules of thumb with which one could decide whether to use a model with an explicit FJ structure or to reduce it to a simpler model requiring less computational effort. Funding: This work was supported by the Dutch Research Council (NWO) Gravitation Programme NETWORKS [Grant 024.002.003], the Israel Ministry of Science and Technology [Grant 880011], and the Israel Science Foundation [Grant 1955/15]. Supplemental Material: The online appendix is available at https://doi.org/10.1287/msom.2022.1167 .

2022: Waiting Experience in Open-Shop Service Networks: Improvements via Flow Analytics & Automation
Abstract: Waiting-for-service is a central, typically detrimental, factor in service experiences, and multiple delays will most likely amplify customers’ poor impressions of a service. Yet multi-delay experiences are commonly assessed via macro measurements, e.g., overall waiting, as opposed to micro measurements that account for individual delays, e.g., maximal or most-recent delay. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the challenges of controlling micro measures – physical distancing has turned short queues and waits into rigid constraints. Our paper, motivated by a health screening clinic, jointly considers macro and micro measurements. To improve customers’ waiting experience, the clinic implemented two information technologies: automated customer routing system (ACRS) and SMS-based customer paging system (SCPS). However, as our empirical study of the clinic revealed, these implementations had no signiﬁcant impact for three main reasons. First, ACRS reduced system ﬂexibility and thus caused unintended idleness of resources. Second, SCPS improved non-bottleneck activities. Third, the clinic automated its sub-optimal practice, namely station-level ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst-served policy, leading to long delays towards the end of a customer’s route. Nevertheless, these initiatives could facilitate enhanced operations and improve waiting experience. To this end, via a stylized queueing model and a data-driven simulation model of the clinic, we analyze delays in an open-shop service network. Our models reveal that a priority-based buﬀer strategy, which accounts for both system- and station-level characteristics, improves both macro- and micro-level measurements. In particular, when prioritizing according to shortest expected remaining processing time priority-base buﬀer policy, performance improves at both micro-level by 41.9% and macro-level by 14.9%.

2021: Balancing admission control, speedup, and waiting in service systems
Abstract: None

2021: When do service employees smile? Response‐dependent emotion regulation in emotional labor
Abstract: None

2021: Hospitalization versus Home Care: Balancing Mortality and Infection Risks for Hematology Patients
Abstract: Problem definition: Previous research has shown that early discharge of patients may hurt their medical outcomes. However, in many cases the “optimal” length of stay (LOS) and the best location for treatment of the patient are not obvious. A case in point is hematology patients, for whom these are critical decisions. Patients with hematological malignancies are susceptible to life-threatening infections after chemotherapy. Sending these patients home early minimizes infection risk, while keeping them longer for hospital observation minimizes mortality risks if an infection occurs. We develop LOS optimization models for hematology patients that balance the risks of patient infection and mortality. 
Methodology/results: We develop a Markov decision process formulation to explore the impact of the infection and mortality risks on the optimal LOS from a single-patient perspective. We further consider the social optimization problem in which capacity constraints limit the ability of hospitals to keep patients for the entirety of their optimal LOS. Using fluid models, we find that the optimal solution takes the form of a two-threshold policy. This policy may block some patients and immediately route them to home care, or speed up some patients LOS and send them to be home-cared early after an observation period at the hospital. 
Managerial implications: Physicians can use our model to determine a personalised optimal LOS for patients according to their infection and mortality risk characteristics. Furthermore, they can adjust that decision according to the current hospital load. In a case study, we show that around 75% of the patient population need some observation period. If the hospital is overloaded, using a speedup only policy is optimal for 90% of the patient types; applying it to all patient types increases overall mortality risk by 0.5%.

2020: The Co-Production of Service: Modeling Services in Contact Centers Using Hawkes Processes
Abstract: In customer support contact centers, every service interaction involves a messaging dialogue between a customer and an agent; together, they exchange information, solve problems, and collectively co-produce the service. Because the service progression is shaped by the history of conversation thus far, we propose a bivariate marked Hawkes process cluster model of the customer-agent interaction. To evaluate our stochastic model of service, we apply it to an industry contact center data set containing nearly 5 million messages. Through both a novel residual analysis comparison and several Monte Carlo goodness-of-fit tests, we show that the Hawkes cluster model indeed captures dynamics at the heart of the service and surpasses classic models that do not incorporate the service history. Furthermore, in an entirely data-driven simulation, we demonstrate how this history-dependent model can be leveraged operationally to inform a prediction-based routing policy. We show that widely used and well-studied customer routing policies can be outperformed with simple modifications according to the Hawkes model. Through analysis of a stylized model proposed in the contact center literature, we prove that service heterogeneity can cause this underperformance and, moreover, that such heterogeneity will occur if service closures are not carefully managed. This paper was accepted by Elena Katok, operations management. Funding: The authors are grateful for the generous support of this work by the National Science Foundation Division of Graduate Education [Grant DGE-1650441] (A. Daw), the Israel Science Foundation [Grant 336/19] (G. B. Yom-Tov), and the United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation [Grant 2022095] (A. Daw, G. B. Yom-Tov). Supplemental Material: The online appendix and data files are available at https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2021.04060 .

2020: The Co-Production of Service: Modeling Service Times in Contact Centers Using Hawkes Processes
Abstract: In customer support centers, a successful service interaction involves a dialogue between a customer and an agent. Both parties depend on one another for information and problem solving, and this interaction defines a co-produced service process. In this paper, we propose, develop, and compare new stochastic models for the co-production of service in a contact center. Using insights from service communication data, we model the service interactions using self-exciting and mutually exciting bivariate Hawkes processes, so that a correspondence from one party increases the likelihood of a response from the other party soon after. Moreover, our models incorporate both dynamic busyness factors that depend on the agent workload as well as dynamic factors that depend on the inner-mechanics of the interaction. To understand how well our Hawkes models describe the message-timestamps, we compare the goodness-of-fit of these models on contact center data from industry. We show that the word-count bivariate Hawkes model, which takes into account the mutual interaction and the amount of information provided by each party, fits the data the best. In addition to a great goodness-of-fit, the Hawkes models allow us to construct explicit expressions for the relationship between the correspondence rates of each party and the conversation progress. These formulae illustrate that the agent is more dominant in pacing the service along in the short term, but that the customer has a more profound effect on the duration of the conversation in the long run. Finally, we use our models to predict the future level of activity within a given conversation, through which we find that the bivariate Hawkes processes that incorporate the amount of information provided by each party or the sentiment expressed by the customer give us the most accurate predictions.

2020: An Invitation Control Policy for Proactive Service Systems: Balancing Efficiency, Value, and Service Level
Abstract: Problem definition: We study the problem of designing a dynamic invitation policy for proactive service systems with finite customer patience under scarce capacity. In such systems, prior knowledge...

2020: Do Customer Emotions Affect Agent Speed? An Empirical Study of Emotional Load in Online Customer Contact Centers
Abstract: Problem definition: Research in operations management has focused mainly on system-level load, ignoring the fact that service agents and customers express a variety of emotions that may impact service processes and outcomes. We introduce the concept of emotional load—the emotional demands that customer behaviors impose on service agents—to analyze how customer emotions affect service worker’s behavior. Academic/practical relevance: Most theories in organizational behavior literature predict that emotions expressed by customers reduce agent’s cognitive abilities and therefore, should reduce the agent’s speed (e.g., by increasing the service time required to serve an angry customer). We aim to shed light on the magnitude of that phenomenon while addressing important econometric challenges. We also investigate an important mechanism that drives this relation, namely agent effort. We discuss practical opportunities that arise from measuring emotional load and how it can be used to enhance productivity. Methodology: We measure the emotional load of agents using sentiment analysis tools that quantify positive/negative customer emotion expressions in an online chat-type contact center and link it to agent behavior: response time (RT) and the length and number of messages required to complete a service request. Identifying a causal effect of customer emotion on agent behavior using observational data is challenging because there are confounding factors associated with the complexity of service requests, which are related to both customer emotions and agent behavior. Our identification strategy uses panel data and exploits the variation across messages within a focal request using fixed effects to control for unobserved factors associated with case complexity. Instrumental variables are also used to address issues of measurement error and other endogeneity problems; the instruments are based on exogenous shocks to agent performance indicators that have been studied in the service operations literature. Results: Analyses show that emotional load created by negative customer emotions increases agent RT, the length of the agent messages (a measure of effort), and the required number of messages needed to complete a service request. Emotional load and agent RT reciprocally affect each other, with long agent RTs and a high number of messages producing more negative customer emotion. Managerial implications: We suggest that the emotional content in customer communications should be an important factor to consider when assigning workload to agents in a service system. Our study provides a rigorous methodology to measure the emotional content from customer text messages and objectively evaluate its associated workload. We discuss how this can be used to improve staffing decisions and dynamic workload routing through real-time monitoring of emotional load.

2020: A Patient-Centered Information System (myED) for Emergency Care Journeys: Design, Development, and Initial Adoption
Abstract: Background Medical care is highly complex in that it addresses patient-centered health goals that require the coordination of multiple care providers. Emergency department (ED) patients currently lack a sense of predictability about ED procedures. This increases frustration and aggression. Herein, we describe a system for providing real-time information to ED patients regarding the procedures in their ED medical journey. Objective This study aimed to develop a system that provides patients with dynamically updated information about the specific procedures and expected waiting times in their personal ED journey, and to report initial evaluations of this system. Methods To develop the myED system, we extracted information from hospital databases and translated it using process mining and user interface design into a language that is accessible and comprehensible to patients. We evaluated the system using a mixed methods approach that combined observations, interviews, and online records. Results Interviews with patients, accompanying family members, and health care providers (HCPs) confirmed patients’ needs for information about their personal ED journey. The system developed enables patients to access this information on their personal mobile phones through a responsive website. In the third month after deployment, 492 of 1614 (30.48%) patients used myED. Patients’ understanding of their ED journey improved significantly (F8,299=2.519; P=.01), and patients showed positive reactions to the system. We identified future challenges, including achieving quick engagement without delaying medical care. Salient reasons for poor system adoption were patients’ medical state and technological illiteracy. HCPs confirmed the potential of myED and identified means that could improve patient experience and staff cooperation. Conclusions Our iterative work with ED patients, HCPs, and a multidisciplinary team of developers yielded a system that provides personal information to patients about their ED journey in a secure, effective, and user-friendly way. MyED communicates this information through mobile technology. This improves health care by addressing patients’ psychological needs for information and understanding, which are often overlooked. We continue to test and refine the system and expect to find positive effects of myED on patients’ ED experience and hospital operations.

