2023: Addendum to “Isomorphism theorems, extended Markov processes and random interlacements”
Abstract: : This addendum clariﬁes Deﬁnition 5.1 in section 5.3 of the previously published paper Electron. J. Probab. 27, 1-27 (2022).

2023: Long-Time Limit of Nonlinearly Coupled Measure-Valued Equations that Model Many-Server Queues with Reneging
Abstract: None

2022: Isomorphism theorems, extended Markov processes and random interlacements
Abstract: : Several questions concerning the Gaussian free ﬁeld on Z d ( d ≥ 3) are solved thanks to a Dynkin-type isomorphism theorem established by Sznitman [29]. This isomorphism theorem relates the Gaussian free ﬁeld to random interlacements and has the same spirit as the generalized second Ray-Knight theorem [11]. We show here that this isomorphism theorem is actually the generalized second Ray-Knight theorem written for a Markov process which is an extension of the continuous time simple random walk on Z d . As a result, the occupation times of random interlacements are the local time processes of this extended Markov process. More generally, for any given transient Markov process ( X t ) t ≥ 0 with an unbounded state space and ﬁnite symmetric 0-potential densities, we construct an extended Markov process ( Y t ) t ≥ 0 with a recurrent point. The generalized second Ray-Knight theorem applied to ( Y t ) t ≥ 0 leads to an identity connecting the Gaussian free ﬁeld associated to ( X t ) t ≥ 0 to the local time process of ( Y t ) t ≥ 0 . Besides symmetry is not required from a transient Markov process to admit an extended Markov process with a recurrent point. Given a transient Markov process, we explore the connections between its associated Kuznetsov processes, its quasi-processes, its extended Markov process and its random interlacements.

2021: Large-time limit of nonlinearly coupled measure-valued equations that model many-server queues with reneging
Abstract: The large-time behavior of a nonlinearly coupled pair of measure-valued transport equations with discontinuous boundary conditions, parameterized by a positive real-valued parameter λ, is considered. These equations describe the hydrodynamic or fluid limit of many-server queues with reneging (with traffic intensity λ), which model phenomena in diverse disciplines, including biology and operations research. For a broad class of reneging distributions with finite mean and service distributions with finite mean and hazard rate function that is either decreasing or bounded away from zero and infinity, it is shown that if the fluid equations have a unique invariant state, then the Dirac measure at this state is the unique random fixed point of the fluid equations, which implies that the stationary distributions of scaled N-server systems converge to the unique invariant state of the corresponding fluid equations. Moreover, when λ 6= 1, it is shown that the solution to the fluid equation starting from any initial condition converges to this unique invariant state in the large time limit. The proof techniques are different under the two sets of assumptions on the service distribution. When the hazard rate function is decreasing, a reformulation of the dynamics in terms of a certain renewal equation is used, in conjunction with recursive asymptotic estimates. When the hazard rate function is bounded away from zero and infinity, the proof uses an extended relative entropy functional as a Lyapunov function. Analogous large-time convergence results are also established for a system of coupled measure-valued equations modeling a multiclass queue.

2016: A Counterexample for the Markov Property of Local Time for Diffusions on Graphs by Nathalie Eisenbaum " and Haya Kaspi ' "
Abstract: Let X be a transient Markov process taking values in an interval E C IR, admitting a local time at each point, and such that points communicate (i.e. every point may be reached from any other point). Let LX be the total accumulated local time at x. Then (LX)xEE is a Markov process (indexed by the states of E) if, and only if X has continuous sample paths and fixed birth and death points. The sufficiency is the famous Ray-Knight theorem (see [R], [KI, [WI, [SI and [ED; the necessity was proved in [E.Kj.

2016: A Skorokhod Map on Measure-Valued Paths with Applications to Priority Queues
Abstract: The Skorokhod map on the half-line has proved to be a useful tool for studying processes with non-negativity constraints. In this work we introduce a measure-valued analog of this map that transforms each element $\zeta$ of a certain class of c\`{a}dl\`{a}g paths that take values in the space of signed measures on the half-line to a c\`{a}dl\`{a}g path that takes values in the space of non-negative measures on $[0,\infty)$ in such a way that for each $x > 0$, the path $t \mapsto \zeta_t[0,x]$ is transformed via a Skorokhod map on the half-line, and the regulating functions for different $x > 0$ are coupled. We establish regularity properties of this map and show that the map provides a convenient tool for studying queueing systems in which tasks are prioritized according to a continuous parameter. Three such well known models are the earliest-deadline-first, the shortest-job-first and the shortest-remaining-processing-time scheduling policies. For these applications, we show how the map provides a unified framework within which to form fluid model equations, prove uniqueness of solutions to these equations and establish convergence of scaled state processes to the fluid model. In particular, for these models, we obtain new convergence results in time-inhomogeneous settings, which appear to fall outside the purview of existing approaches.

2016: Law of large numbers for the many-server earliest-deadline-first queue
Abstract: None

2015: COMMOOmES WITH RENEWAL INPUT AND POISSON OUTPUT
Abstract: We consider an inventory system to which arrival of items stored is a renewal process, and the demand is a Poisson process. Items stored have finite and fixed lifetimes. The blood-bank model inspired this study. Three models are studied. In the first one, we assume that each demand is for one unit and unsatisfied demands leave the system immediately. Using results on this model one is able to study a model in which arrival of items is Poisson but demands are for several units, and a model in which demands are willing to wait. We compute ergodic limits for the lost demands and the lost items processes and the limiting distribution of the number of items stored. The main tool in this analysis is an analogy to M/G/1 queueing systems with impatient customers. M/G/1 QUEUEING SYSlEMS; VIRTUAL WAITING TIME; LEVEL CROSSINGS; MARKOV PROCESSES

2014: Fluid Limits for Many-Server Systems with Reneging Under a Priority Policy
Abstract: A multiclass many-server system is considered, in which customers are served according to a nonpreemptive priority policy and may renege while waiting to enter service. The service and reneging time distributions satisfy mild conditions. Building on an approach developed by Kaspi and Ramanan, the law-of-large-numbers many-server asymptotics are characterized as the unique solution to a set of differential equations in a measure space, regarded as fluid model equations. In stationarity, convergence to the explicitly solved invariant state of the fluid-model equations is established. An immediate consequence of the results in the case of exponential reneging is the asymptotic optimality of an index policy, called the c(mu) / (theta) rule, for the problem of minimizing linear queue-length and reneging costs. A certain Skorohod map plays an important role in obtaining both uniqueness of solutions to the fluid-model equations and convergence.

2013: Escape from the boundary in Markov population processes
Abstract: Density dependent Markov population processes in large populations of size N were shown by Kurtz (1970), (1971) to be well approximated over finite time intervals by the solution of the differential equations that describe their average drift, and to exhibit stochastic fluctuations about this deterministic solution on the scale √N that can be approximated by a diffusion process. Here, motivated by an example from evolutionary biology, we are concerned with describing how such a process leaves an absorbing boundary. Initially, one or more of the populations is of size much smaller than N, and the length of time taken until all populations have sizes comparable to N then becomes infinite as N → ∞. Under suitable assumptions, we show that in the early stages of development, up to the time when all populations have sizes at least N 1-α for 1/3 < α < 1, the process can be accurately approximated in total variation by a Markov branching process. Thereafter, it is well approximated by the deterministic solution starting from the original initial point, but with a random time delay. Analogous behaviour is also established for a Markov process approaching an equilibrium on a boundary, where one or more of the populations become extinct.

2013: Fluid Limits of G/G/1+G Queues Under the Nonpreemptive Earliest-Deadline-First Discipline
Abstract: A single-server queueing model is considered with customers that have deadlines. If a customer’s deadline elapses before service is offered, the customer abandons the system (customers do not abandon while being served). When the server becomes available, it offers service to the customer having the earliest deadline among those that are in the queue. We obtain a fluid limit of the queue length and abandonment processes and for the occupation measure of deadlines, in the form of measure-valued processes. We characterize the limit by means of a Skorohod problem in a time-varying domain that has an explicit solution. The fluid limits also describe a certain process called the frontier that is well known to play a key role in systems operating under this scheduling policy.

2013: FLUID APPROXIMATION AND A TIME CHANGE FOR AN EVOLUTION MODEL
Abstract: In the Bare Bones Evolution Model of Sagitov, (see \Stochasticity in the adaptive dynamics of evolution: the bare bones", (5)) the appearance of a new mutation in a resident estab- lished population is described as follows. The resident population, which is assumed to be around its carrying capacity K, evolves as a binary splitting process with probability of successful reproduction (division) dependent on the size of that population and also on the size of the new mutant population. The mutant population starts with a single individual and also evolves as a binary splitting with initially very high probabilities of successful division. Approximat- ing this system for high values of carrying capacity K leads to a dynamical system with a small noise, which initially starts near an unstable xed point. By a classical approximation Theorem the population densities converge to that unstable xed point on any xed nite time interval. In other words, the evolution does not produce a sizable eect

2010: SPDE Limits of Many Server Queues
Abstract: A many-server queueing system is considered in which customers with independent and identically distributed service times enter service in the order of arrival. The state of the system is represented by a process that describes the total number of customers in the system, as well as a measure-valued process that keeps track of the ages of customers in service, leading to a Markovian description of the dynamics. Under suitable assumptions, a functional central limit theorem is established for the sequence of (centered and scaled) state processes as the number of servers goes to infinity. The limit process describing the total number in system is shown to be an Ito diffusion with a constant diffusion coefficient that is insensitive to the service distribution. The limit of the sequence of (centered and scaled) age processes is shown to be a Hilbert space valued diffusion that can also be characterized as the unique solution of a stochastic partial differential equation that is coupled with the Ito diffusion. Furthermore, the limit processes are shown to be semimartingales and to possess a strong Markov property.

2007: Law of large numbers limits for many-server queues
Abstract: Abstract. This work considers a many-server queueing system in which customers with i.i.d., generally distributed service times enter service in the order of arrival. The dynamics of the system are represented in terms of a process that describes the total number of customers in the system, as well as a measure-valued process that keeps track of the ages of customers in service. Under mild assumptions on the service time distribution, as the number of servers goes to infinity, a law of large numbers (or fluid) limit is established for this pair of processes. The limit is characterised as the unique solution to a coupled pair of integral equations, which admits a fairly explicit representation. As a corollary, the fluid limits of several other functionals of interest, such as the waiting time, are also obtained. Furthermore, when the arrival process is time-homogeneous, the fluid limit is shown to converge to its equilibrium. Along the way, some results of independent interest are obtained, including a continuous mapping result and a maximality property of the fluid limit. A motivation for studying these systems is that they arise as models of computer data systems and call centers.

2006: On permanental processes
Abstract: None

2005: A characterization of the infinitely divisible squared Gaussian processes
Abstract: We show that, up to multiplication by constants, a Gaussian process has an infinitely divisible square if and only if its covariance is the Green function of a transient Markov process.

2005: On the continuity of local times of Borel right Markov processes
Abstract: The problem of finding a necessary and sufficient condition for the continuity of the local times for a general Markov process is still open. Barlow and Hawkes have completely treated the case of the Levy processes, and Marcus and Rosen have solved the case of the strongly symmetric Markov processes. We treat here the continuity of the local times of Borel right processes. Our approach unifies that of Barlow and Hawkes and of Marcus and Rosen, by using an associated Gaussian process, that appears as a limit in a CLT involving the local time process.

2005: ON/OFF STORAGE SYSTEMS WITH STATE-DEPENDENT INPUT, OUTPUT, AND SWITCHING RATES
Abstract: We consider a storage model that can be on or off. When on, the content increases at some state-dependent rate and the system can switch to the off state at a state-dependent rate as well. When off, the content decreases at some state-dependent rate (unless it is at zero) and the system can switch to the on position at a state-dependent rate. This process is a special case of a piecewise deterministic Markov process. We identify the stationary distribution and conditions for its existence and uniqueness.

2004: Lenses in skew Brownian flow
Abstract: We consider a stochastic flow in which individual particles follow skew Brownian motions, with each one of these processes driven by the same Brownian motion. One does not have uniqueness for the solutions of the corresponding stochastic differential equation simultaneously for all real initial conditions. Due to this lack of the simultaneous strong uniqueness for the whole system of stochastic differential equations, the flow contains lenses, that is, pairs of skew Brownian motions which start at the same point, bifurcate, and then coalesce in a finite time. The paper contains qualitative and quantitative (distributional) results on the geometry of the flow and lenses.

2000: p-variation for families of local times on lines
Abstract: None

