Recent papers for Hayat Alex:

2023: Ultrafast low-jitter optical response in high-temperature superconducting microwires
Abstract: We report ultrafast optical response in high-Tc superconductor (YBa2Cu3O7−δ) based microwires operating at 76 K and we find a rise time ∼850 ps and a fall time ∼1250 ps and an upper limit of timing jitter of ∼100 ps, using twice the standard deviation of the fitted data. In our experiment, incident power is proven to be an important factor for a device jitter. At low incident power, a lower rate of hot-spot generation by a smaller number of absorbed photons results in a longer latency time to obtain the required number of hot-spots for superconductor-to-normal transition. The lower hot-spot generation rate also results in larger timing jitter of the device. Whereas, at high incident power, a higher hot-spot generation rate yields shorter latency and smaller timing jitter. These observations agree well with our statistical model. Enhancing the sensitivity of the current device can enable future high-Tc superconductor nanowire single photon detectors, toward the widespread use of ultrafast quantum technologies.

2023: Universal Photonic Quantum Gate by Cooper-pair-based Optical Nonlinearity
Abstract: Quantum information processing (QIP) can provide exponential speedup of various computational algorithms physically proven data security. Many realizations of QIP employ photons as qubits in applications such as cryptography [1], computing [2], [3], and teleportation [4]. Despite their many uses, implementing photon-based quantum gates is extremely challenging due to the very weak photon-photon interaction in practical materials [5]. Lately, a field of superconducting optoelectronics emerged, investigating light-matter interaction in semiconductor-superconductor structures [6], [7]. Such interactions were shown to result in novel processes based on strongly-enhanced optical nonlinearities, including spontaneous two-photon emission [8] and two-photon gain [9], enabling various aspects of QIP such as full Bell state analysis [10] and entangled-photon generation [11]. Nevertheless, a complete infrastructure for superconductor-based photonic quantum information processing requires quantum gate schemes, which have not been studied so far.

2023: Two-photon emission and correlations from a superlattice-based superconducting light-emitting diode
Abstract: We demonstrate evidence of two-photon emission and photon pair correlations, resulting from injected Cooper-pairs in superconductor-semiconductor structures. Such structures can be utilized for multiple applications including enhanced two-photon gain, electrically-driven entangled-photon generation and Bell-state analyzers.

2022: 11 39 v 1 [ qu an tph ] 5 M ar 2 01 3 Observing the Onset of Effective Mass
Abstract: The response of a particle in a periodic potential to an applied force is commonly described by an effective mass which accounts for the detailed interaction between the particle and the surrounding potential. Using a Bose-Einstein condensate of Rb atoms initially in the ground band of an optical lattice, we experimentally show that the initial response of a particle to an applied force is in fact characterized by the bare mass. Subsequently, the particle response undergoes rapid oscillations and only over timescales long compared to that of the interband dynamics is the effective mass observed to be an appropriate description.

2022: Photon Pair Correlations in Semiconductor-Superconductor Light Sources
Abstract: We demonstrate evidence of photon pair correlations, resulting from injected Cooper-pairs in superconductor-semiconductor structures. Such structures can be utilized for multiple applications including enhanced two-photon gain, electrically-driven entangledphoton generation and Bell-state analyzers.

2022: Enhanced Cooper-Pair Injection into a Semiconductor Structure by Resonant Tunneling.
Abstract: We demonstrate enhanced Andreev reflection in a Nb/InGaAs/InP-based superconductor-semiconductor hybrid device resulting in increased Cooper-pair injection efficiency, achieved by Cooper-pair tunneling into a semiconductor quantum well resonant state. We show this enhancement by investigating the differential conductance spectra of two kinds of samples: one exhibiting resonant states and one which does not. We observe resonant features alongside strong enhancement of Cooper pair injection in the resonant sample, and lack of Cooper pair injection in the nonresonant sample. The theoretical modeling for measured spectra by a numerical approach agrees well with the experimental data. Our findings open a wide range of directions in condensed matter physics and in quantum technologies such as superconducting light-emitting diodes and structures supporting exotic excitations.

2020: Photoresponse above 85 K of selective epitaxy grown high-Tc superconducting microwires
Abstract: Superconducting single-photon detectors have become a very promising infrared photon counting technology. Utilizing high-Tc superconductors to implement photon counters is significantly more practical due to their much higher operating temperatures. We report photoresponse above 85 K of YB a 2 C u 3 O 7 − δ (YBCO) microwires fabricated using selective epitaxial growth (SEG), demonstrating their high photon detection efficiency. SEG does not require post-deposition treatment of the YBCO layer, thus avoiding material damage and degradation, typically occurring in conventional submicrometer YBCO device fabrication. Our results show excellent superconducting performance with a Tc of up to 89 K and a sharp transition width of Δ T ∼ 2 K, as well as a relatively high critical current density Jc of ∼ 5.7 × 10 5 A / c m 2 at 77 K. The optical response of our YBCO microwires, especially the high responsivity of ∼ 3 × 10 3 mV / ( nW / u m 2 ) , paves the way for infrared single-photon detection using high-Tc superconductors.

2020: Optimizing the Strong Coupling of Excitons in 2D Materials and Surface Plasmon Lattice Resonances
Abstract: We study strong coupling (SC) in a system of plasmonic nanohole arrays and transition-metal dichalcogenide material (WS2). Using FDTD simulations and a genetic algorithm, we design several array geometries to obtain large Rabi splitting at room-temperature.

2020: Epitaxial superconducting tunnel diodes for light detection applications
Abstract: We demonstrate epitaxially integrated nanoscale superconductor tunnel diodes, realized using NbN on GaN thin films. Tuning the growth conditions leads to reduced interface defect density and to the emergence of the superconducting coherence peaks in the interface tunneling characteristics. The degree of disorder in the superconductor is correlated with the variance in the order parameter value of different domains. Epitaxial integration of the nanoscale layers allowed precise control on the quality of the superconductor at the interface, and, by extension, the variance in the order parameter value. The numerical calculations taking a normal distribution of superconducting order parameter at the interface with a fixed variance in its order parameter values closely match the measured interface transport characteristics at different temperatures. Strong sub-gap nonlinearity observed in the differential conductivity measurements were subsequently shown to be sensitive to photon incidence, thereby acting as a photodetector. Usage of superconducting interfaces with semiconducting layers such as GaN permit sensitivity tunability and enable large scale device fabrication and integration.

2020: Two-photon excitation of an exciton-polariton condensate.
Abstract: We observe for the first time two-photon excited condensation of exciton-polaritons. The angle-resolved photoluminescence (PL) from the Lower Polariton (LP) ground state in our planar GaAs-based microcavity structure exhibits a clear intensity threshold as a function of increased Two-Photon Excitation (TPE) power, coinciding with an interaction-induced blueshift and a narrowing of spectral linewidth, characteristic of the transition from a thermal distribution of lower polaritons to the polariton condensation. Two-Photon Absorption (TPA) is evidenced in the quadratic dependence of the input-output curves below and above the threshold region, and Second Harmonic Generation (SHG) is ruled out by scanning the pump energy and observing independence of the LP emission peak energy. Our results pave the way for a polariton-based stimulated THz radiation source, stemming from the dipole-allowed transition from the Quantum Well (QW) 2p dark exciton state to the 1s-exciton-based LP ground state, as theoretically predicted in [A. V. Kavokin et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 197401 (2012)].

2020: Enhanced two-photon amplification in superconductor-semiconductor plasmonic waveguides.
Abstract: We theoretically demonstrate significant enhancement of two-photon amplification by using a superconductor for both a Cooper-pair source and surface plasmon-polariton mode guiding. Cooper-pair-based gain active region restriction to the superconductor-semiconductor interface limits its potentially highly efficient two-photon gain process. Using the superconductor layer for a plasmonic waveguide structure allows strong photon confinement while reducing design and fabrication constraints. This results in three orders of magnitude enhancement of the superconducting two-photon gain (TPG) compared to superconductor-based dielectric waveguides. Moreover, a superconducting TPG produced by a plasmonic waveguide increases with carrier concentration, meeting practical device requirements. Our results pave the way for efficient two-photon amplification realization in nanoscale devices.

2020: High-Tc Cooper-pair injection in a semiconductor–superconductor structure
Abstract: We observe Andreev reflection in a YBCO–GaN junction through differential conductance spectroscopy. A strong characteristic zero-bias peak was observed and persisted up to the critical temperature of the superconductor with a smaller superconducting order parameter Δ ∼ 1 meV. The presence of Andreev reflection with the small Δ in comparison to its value for high-Tc superconductors forms an important milestone toward demonstration of superconducting proximity in high-Tc/semiconductor junctions. Experimental results were then compared to the theoretical model with good agreement. Efficient injection of Cooper pairs into direct bandgap semiconducting structures, together with high transition temperature of YBCO, can pave the way to novel optoelectronics and quantum optical studies of high-Tc materials.

2019: Semiconductor-Superconductor Quantum Optoelectronics
Abstract: Various applications in the rapidly growing field of quantum information science require reliable and effective quantum light sources. We proposed an efficient approach for generation of entangled photons, based on Cooper-pair luminescence in semiconductors, which does not require isolated emitters. Semiconductor quantum wells, remove the light-heavy-hole degeneracy, allowing efficient photon entanglement generation in simple electrically-driven structures, taking advantage of the superconducting macroscopic coherence [1]. We analyzed a new effect of enhanced light amplification in electrically-driven semiconductor-superconductor structures, including Cooper-pair based two-photon gain [2]. We also proposed a compact and highly-efficient scheme for a complete Bell-state analysis using two-photon absorption in a superconducting proximity region of a semiconductor avalanche photodiode [3]. This Cooper-pair based two-photon absorption results in a strong detection preference of a specified entangled state.

2019: Observation of 2D semiconductor P-type dark-exciton lifetime using two-photon ultrafast spectroscopy.
Abstract: We report direct measurements of intrinsic lifetimes of P-type dark-excitons in MoS2 monolayers. Using sub-gap excitation, we demonstrate two-photon excited direct population of P-type dark excitons, observe their scattering to bright states and decay with femtosecond resolution. In contrast to one-photon excitation schemes, non-monotonic density variation in bright exciton population observed under two-photon excitation shows the indirect nature of its population and competing decay pathways. Detailed modeling of different recombination pathways of bright and dark excitons allows experimental measurement of 2P dark → 1S bright exciton scattering rates. These insights into the dark states in a MoS2 monolayer pave the way for novel devices such as quantum memories and computing.

2019: Ultrafast Manipulation of a Strongly Coupled Light–Matter System by a Giant ac Stark Effect
Abstract: We demonstrate ultrafast control of a strongly coupled light–matter system via a giant ac Stark effect in a specially designed strongly coupled microcavity using ultrafast pump–probe spectroscopy. ...

2019: Thin‐Film‐Based Integrated High‐Transition‐Temperature Superconductor Devices
Abstract: Since the discovery of superconductivity at temperatures above the technologically promising liquid nitrogen temperatures, applications based on superconductors have expanded and are being put to commercial use. However, superconductivity at higher temperatures typically occurs in complex materials requiring stringent material and environmental constraints. Such restraints make the realization and integration of these materials with normal materials a nontrivial aspect. In this progress report, unique features of these superconductors in terms of their synthesis, physical properties determining interface electrical transport, and their applications are discussed. A detailed progress report on these applications with remarks on efforts taken to integrate these devices with traditional platforms and semiconducting materials is provided.

2018: Andreev Reflection without Fermi surface alignment in High T c-Topological heterostructures
Abstract: We address the controversy over the proximity effect between topological materials and high Tc superconductors. Junctions are produced between Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+δ and materials with different Fermi surfaces (Bi2Te3 & graphite). Both cases reveal tunneling spectra consistent with Andreev reflection. This is confirmed by magnetic field that shifts features via the Doppler effect. This is modeled with a single parameter that accounts for tunneling into a screening supercurrent. Thus the tunneling involves Cooper pairs crossing the heterostructure, showing the Fermi surface mis-match does not hinder the ability to form transparent interfaces, which is accounted for by the extended Brillouin zone and different lattice symmetries. Submitted to: New J. Phys. ‡ Present Address: Department of Physics, Harvard University, Boston MA USA § Present Address: School of Chemical Engineering and Environment, North University of China, China ‖ Present Address: International Center for Quantum Materials, School of Physics, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China ar X iv :1 70 5. 03 51 8v 1 [ co nd -m at .s up rco n] 9 M ay 2 01 7 Andreev Reflection without Fermi surface alignment in High Tc-Topological heterostructures2

2018: Andreev Reflection in a Superconducting Light-Emitting Diode.
Abstract: We experimentally demonstrate Cooper-pair injection into a superconducting light-emitting diode by observing Andreev reflection at the superconductor-semiconductor interface, overcoming the contradicting requirements of an electrically transparent interface and radiative recombination efficiency. The device exhibits electroluminescence enhancement at the quasi-Fermi energy at temperatures below Tc. The theoretically predicted conductance and electroluminescence spectra based on Cooper-pair injection into the semiconductor correspond well to our experimental results. Our findings pave the way for practical superconductor-semiconductor quantum light sources.

2018: Andreev reflection enhancement in semiconductor-superconductor structures
Abstract: We develop a new theoretical approach for modelling a wide range of semiconductor-superconductor structures with arbitrary potential barriers and a spatially-dependent superconducting order parameter. We demonstrate asymmetry in the conductance spectrum as a result of a Schottky barrier shape. We further show that Andreev reflection process can be significantly enhanced through resonant tunneling with appropriate barrier configuration, which can incorporate the Schottky barrier as a contributing component of the device. Moreover, we show that resonant tunneling can be achieved in superlattice structures as well. These theoretically demonstrated effects along with our modelling approach enable much more efficient Cooper pair injection into semiconductor-superconductor structures, including superconducting optoelectronic devices.

2018: Ultrafast control of strong light–matter coupling
Abstract: We dynamically modulate strong light–matter coupling in a GaAs/AlGaAs microcavity using intense ultrashort laser pulses tuned below the interband exciton energy, which induce a transient Stark shift of the cavity polaritons. For 225-fs pulses, shorter than the cavity Rabi cycle period of 1000 fs, this shift decouples excitons and cavity photons for the duration of the pulse, interrupting the periodic energy exchange between photonic and electronic states. For 1500-fs pulses, longer than the Rabi cycle period, however, the Stark shift does not affect the strong coupling. The two regimes are marked by distinctly different line shapes in ultrafast reflectivity measurements—regardless of the Stark field intensity. The crossover marks the transition from adiabatic to diabatic switching of strong light–matter coupling.

