Recent papers for Horowitz Moshe:

2021: Single-Mode Operation of Fiber Lasers Based on Time Domain Suppression of Non-Lasing Modes
Abstract: We experimentally and theoretically demonstrate a new method to obtain a single-mode operation in long cavity lasers. The method is based on suppressing non-lasing modes in the time domain by attenuating their intensity beating with the lasing mode. This suppression is implemented in our experiments by adding into the cavity an intensity modulator, which is controlled by the photo-detected beating signal. We have demonstrated the method in a long Erbium-doped fiber ring laser with a ring cavity length of about 13 m. Single-mode operation without mode-hopping was obtained for a long time duration of about 100 minutes. Although Erbium-doped fiber amplifiers are homogeneously broadened at room temperature, a single-mode operation was achieved in several cavity modes, which do not have the highest small-signal gain. A theoretical model, based on a small-signal stability analysis, is given. The model indicates that the control delay should be accurately chosen.

2021: Generation of ultra-low jitter radio frequency phase pulses by a phase-locked oscillator.
Abstract: We demonstrate a novel, to the best of our knowledge, method for mode locking of an oscillator, which is based on the injection of a strong sinusoidal signal from an external source into the cavity. The oscillator generates a low phase noise carrier signal with a train of ultra-low jitter, short 2π phase pulses at a repetition period equal to the cavity round-trip time. Both the carrier signal and phase pulses are phase-locked to the external source. We demonstrate the effect in an optoelectronic oscillator that generates a train of short phase pulses at a high carrier frequency with the broadband spectrum of a dense RF frequency comb. The phase pulses can be converted to short, ultra-low jitter intensity RF pulses by beating the oscillator signal with the external source, used for locking.

2019: Selection of the Oscillation Mode in Multi-Mode Oscillators by Initializing the Cavity Signal
Abstract: We demonstrate a new method to select the oscillation mode in multi-mode oscillators with an instantaneous gain saturation. The method is based on initializing the cavity signal by feeding into the cavity an external signal for a duration that can be as short as the cavity delay. After the external signal is turned off, the steady state oscillation mode is exactly determined by the frequency of the external signal. By changing the external signal frequency, any specific mode can be selected over a broad continuous operating frequency region, which can be wider than the full width at half maximum (FWHM) bandwidth of the cavity filter. The method is not based on injection-locking effect and therefore the frequency of the external signal can be arbitrary chosen in a broad operating bandwidth, and it is not limited by the narrow locking range of the oscillator. When the frequency difference between the external signal and the central frequency of the filter is small, in comparison with the filter FWHM bandwidth, the selected mode is the mode with the nearest frequency to that of the external signal. However, as this frequency difference is increased, the selected mode is slightly shifted toward the filter central frequency. These results were experimentally demonstrated in an optoelectronic oscillator (OEO) and were compared to a comprehensive numerical simulation. A good quantitative agreement between theory and experiments were obtained. A fundamental limit on the minimum duration, which is required to initialize the cavity signal is given.

2018: Phase measurement by using a forced delay-line oscillator and its application for an acoustic fiber sensor.
Abstract: We demonstrate, theoretically and experimentally, a new method to measure small changes in the cavity length of oscillators. The method is based on the high sensitivity of the phase of forced delay-line oscillators to changes in their cavity length. The oscillator phase is directly detected by mixing the oscillator output with the injected signal. We describe a comprehensive theoretical model for studying the signal and the noise at the output of a general forced delay-line oscillator with an instantaneous gain saturation and an amplitude-to-phase conversion. The results indicate that the magnitude and the bandwidth of the oscillator response to a small perturbation can be controlled by adjusting the injection ratio and the injected frequency. For signals with a frequency that is smaller than the device bandwidth, the oscillator noise is dominated by the noise of the injected signal. This noise is highly suppressed by mixing the oscillator output with the injected signal. Hence, the device sensitivity at frequencies below its bandwidth is limited only by the internal noise that is added in a single roundtrip in the oscillator cavity. We demonstrate the use of a forced oscillator as an acoustic fiber sensor in an optoelectronic oscillator. A good agreement is obtained between theory and experiments. The magnitude of the output signal can be controlled by adjusting the injection ratio while the noise power at low frequencies is not enhanced as in sensors that are based on a free-running oscillator.

2017: Wideband tunable opto-electronic oscillator based on frequency translation.
Abstract: We demonstrate a new method to obtain a widely tunable low phase-noise opto-electronic oscillator (OEO), based on translating the OEO signal into a lower intermediate frequency (IF) signal. The OEO signal is downconverted to IF by using a local oscillator (LO) signal, filtered by a high-Q filter; its frequency is then upconverted back into the high OEO frequency. The combination of a narrowband filter at a fixed central frequency with a tunable LO forms a tunable high-Q bandpass filter (BPF) that can be used to change the OEO frequency over a broad frequency region. The effect of the LO phase noise on the OEO is suppressed by the dual frequency conversions. Hence, a tunable LO with a high phase noise can be used to control the frequency of a very low phase-noise OEO. The use of a BPF with a lower center frequency than that of the OEO signal also enables increasing the effective Q-factor of the OEO filter.

2017: Longitudinal mode selection in a delay-line homogeneously broadened oscillator with a fast saturable amplifier.
Abstract: Homogeneously broadened delay-line oscillators such as lasers or optoelectronic oscillators (OEOs) can potentially oscillate in a large number of cavity modes that are supported by their amplifier bandwidth. In a continuous wave operating mode, the oscillating mode is selected between one or few cavity modes that experience the highest small-signal gain. In this manuscript, we show that the oscillation mode of a homogeneously broadened oscillator can be selected from a large number of modes in a frequency region that can be broader than the full width at half maximum of the effective cavity filter. The mode is selected by a short-time injection of an external signal into the oscillator. After the external signal is turned off, the oscillation is maintained in the selected mode even if this mode has a significantly lower small-signal gain than that of other cavity modes. The stability of the oscillation is obtained due to nonlinear saturation effect in the oscillator amplifier. We demonstrate, experimentally and theoretically, mode selection in a long cavity OEO. We could select any desired mode between 400 cavity modes while maintaining ultra-low phase noise in the selected mode and in the non-oscillating modes. No mode-hopping was observed during our maximum measurement duration of about 24 hours.

2016: Wideband-frequency tunable optoelectronic oscillator based on injection locking to an electronic oscillator.
Abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a wideband-frequency tunable optoelectronic oscillator (OEO) based on injection locking of the OEO to a tunable electronic oscillator. The OEO cavity does not contain a narrowband filter and its frequency can be tuned over a broad bandwidth of 1 GHz. The injection locking is based on minimizing the injected power by adjusting the frequency of one of the OEO cavity modes to be approximately equal to the frequency of the injected signal. The phase noise that is obtained in the injection-locked OEO is similar to that obtained in a long-cavity self-sustained OEO. Although the cavity length of the OEO was long, the spurious modes were suppressed due to the injection locking without the need to use a narrowband filter. The spurious level was significantly below that obtained in a self-sustained OEO after inserting a narrowband electronic filter with a Q-factor of 720 into the cavity.

2016: Noise induced in optical fibers by double Rayleigh scattering of a laser with a 1/fν frequency noise.
Abstract: We study, theoretically and experimentally, intensity noise induced by double Rayleigh scattering in long optical fibers. The results of the theoretical model are compared to experimental results performed with a high-coherence-length laser with a frequency noise spectrum that is dominated by 1/fν noise. Excellent quantitative agreement between theoretical and experimental RF spectra were obtained for frequencies as low as 10 Hz and for fiber lengths between 4 and 45 km. Strong low-frequency intensity noise that is induced by 1/fν frequency noise of the laser may limit the performance of interferometric fiber optic sensors that require high-coherence-length lasers. The intensity noise due to double Rayleigh backscattering can be suppressed by reducing the coherence length of the laser. Therefore, the intensity noise has a complex and non-monotonic dependence on the 1/fν frequency noise amplitude of the laser. Stimulated Brillouin scattering will add a significant noise for input powers greater than about 7 mW for a 30 km length fiber.

2014: Optical under-sampling by using a broadband optical comb with a high average power.
Abstract: We demonstrate a new method to improve the performance of photonic assisted analog to digital converters (ADCs) that are based on frequency down-conversion obtained by optical under-sampling. The under-sampling is performed by multiplying the radio frequency signal by ultra-low jitter broadband phase-locked optical comb. The comb wave intensity has a smooth periodic function in the time domain rather than a train of short pulses that is currently used in most photonic assisted ADCs. Hence, the signal energy at the photo-detector output can be increased and the signal to noise ratio of the system might be improved without decreasing its bandwidth. We have experimentally demonstrated a system for electro-optical under-sampling with a 6-dB bandwidth of 38.5 GHz and a spur free dynamic range of 99 dB/Hz(2/3) for a signal with a carrier frequency of 35.8 GHz, compared with 94 dB/Hz(2/3) for a signal at 6.2 GHz that was obtained in the same system when a pulsed optical source was used. The optical comb was generated by mixing signals from two dielectric resonator oscillators in a Mach-Zehnder modulator. The comb spacing is equal to 4 GHz and its bandwidth was greater than 48 GHz. The temporal jitter of the comb measured by integrating the phase noise in a frequency region of 10 kHz to 10 MHz around comb frequencies of 16 and 20 GHz was only about 15 and 11 fs, respectively.

2013: Theoretical and experimental study of passive mode-locked optoelectronic oscillators
Abstract: We present a theoretical and experimental study of passively mode-locked optoelectronic oscillators that generate a single-cycle pulse train with an autonomous envelope-carrier phase locking. The theoretical study is performed by developing a numerical simulation. A good agreement is achieved between the theoretical and the experimental results. We theoretically study the effect of the periodic frequency dependence of the dispersion coefficient on the generation of a single-cycle pulse train with an autonomous envelope-carrier phase locking. The timing jitter is experimentally measured by performing a spectral analysis of the pulse train. The spectral analysis suggests a timing jitter of about 5 ps by using an integration bandwidth of 100 Hz to 1 MHz. The measured jitter is compared to the result of the numerical simulation and to an analytical expression.

2013: Ultralow-repetition-rate pulses with ultralow jitter generated by passive mode-locking of an optoelectronic oscillator
Abstract: We demonstrate the generation of an ultralow-repetition-rate pulse train with a repetition rate of 19.6 kHz by passive mode-locking of an optoelectronic oscillator. The pulse-to-pulse timing jitter equals 0.06 ppm of the repetition time of the pulses. No significant dependence of pulse duration, pulse waveform, and timing jitter was observed when the cavity length was changed from 150 to 10,400 m. A simple theoretical model for calculating the dependence of the jitter on the cavity length is given.

2012: Similaritons in fiber Bragg gratings written in fiber amplifiers
Abstract: We show, by using numerical simulations, that self-similar pulses can be obtained at the output of a fiber Bragg grating written in a fiber amplifier.

2012: Self-similar amplification in fiber Bragg gratings written in fiber amplifiers.
Abstract: We show, by using numerical simulations, that self-similar pulses with a duration on the order of few nanoseconds and an energy on the order of 10 μJ can be obtained at the output of a fiber Bragg grating (FBG) written in a fiber amplifier. The evolution of the amplified pulses is determined by the combined effect of Kerr nonlinearity, normal-dispersion, gain, and gain saturation, which limit the pulse energy. The output pulse mainly depends on the initial pulse energy rather than on the initial pulse profile. The reduced group velocity in FBGs can significantly increase the total gain for a given amplifier length. Hence we find that the proposed amplification scheme can be highly advantageous for amplification of nanosecond-scale pulses in fiber amplifiers.

2012: Synchronization between two weakly coupled delay-line oscillators.
Abstract: We study theoretically the generation of a continuous-wave signal by two weakly coupled delay-line oscillators. In such oscillators, the cavity length is longer than the wavelength of the signal. We show by using an analytical solution and comprehensive numerical simulations that in delay-line oscillators, the dynamics of the amplitude response cannot be neglected even when the coupling between the oscillators is weak. Therefore, weakly coupled delay-line oscillators cannot be accurately modeled by using coupled phase-oscillator models. In particular, we show that synchronization between the oscillators can be obtained in cases that are not allowed by coupled phase-oscillator models. We study the stability of the continuous-wave solutions. In delay-line oscillators, several cavity modes can potentially oscillate. To ensure stability, the bandwidth of the delay-line oscillator should be limited. We show that the weakly coupled delay-line oscillator model that is described in this paper can be used to accurately model the synchronization between two weakly coupled optoelectronic oscillators. A very good quantitative agreement is obtained between a comprehensive numerical model to study optoelectronic oscillators and the model results given in this paper.

2012: Potentials and challenges for the optoelectronic oscillator
Abstract: We review our experimental and simulation-modeling studies on optoelectronic oscillators (OEOs). The OEO can have an intrinsic quality factor, Q that is orders of magnitude higher than that of the best electronic oscillators (i.e. Poseidon). However, our experimental results show that the OEO's current phase noise level is still worse than that of the Poseidon. This is caused by many noise sources in the OEO which reduce the "loaded-Q" in the loop system. In order to mitigate these noise sources, we have systematically studied such phenomena as the laser RIN, Brillouin and Rayleigh scattering in the fiber, vibration, etc. These noise sources are convoluted in both optical and electrical domains by many different physical effects; hence, it is very difficult to experimentally separate them, and only the dominant phase noise is observed in each offset-frequency. Therefore, we developed a computational model to simulate our experimental injection-locked dual-OEO system. By validating the model with our experimental results from both individual components and OEO loops, we can start to trace the individual phase noise sources. The goal is to use the validated model to guide our experiments to identify the dominant phase noise in each spectral region, and mitigate these noise sources so that the OEO can reach its full potential.

2012: Post-fabrication wavelength trimming of fiber Bragg gratings by using a 213-nm 8-ps pulsed laser
Abstract: We demonstrate post-fabrication wavelength trimming of FBGs in two fiber types by using a 213-nm pulsed laser and show that it has significant advantages compared to trimming by using Argon-Ion laser.

2011: Propagation of quasisolitons in a fiber Bragg grating written in a slow saturable fiber amplifier
Abstract: We show, by using numerical simulations, that quasisolitons can propagate over a long distance in a fiber Bragg grating that is written in a slow saturable fiber amplifier, such as an erbium-doped fiber amplifier. During the pulse propagation, the front end of the pulse experiences a net gain while the rear end of pulse is attenuated due to the combination of gain saturation and loss. However, the pulse profile almost does not change after propagating over a length of 5 m that is approximately 2500 times larger than the spatial pulse width. The pulse amplitude has an approximately hyperbolic secant profile. We develop a reduced model by using a multiscale analysis to study solitary-wave propagation when nonlinearity and gain are small. When gain saturation also becomes small we find analytically a new family of solitary-wave hyperbolic-secant solutions that approximately solve the reduced model. The solitary waves propagate slightly faster than Bragg solitons that propagate in fiber Bragg gratings without gain and loss.

2011: Low-frequency transmitted intensity noise induced by stimulated Brillouin scattering in optical fibers.
Abstract: We study theoretically and experimentally the spectral properties of low-frequency transmitted intensity noise induced by stimulated Brillouin scattering in optical fibers. In fibers with a length of 25 km the Brillouin scattering induces transmitted intensity noise with a bandwidth on the order of tens of kHz. The power spectral density of the noise can be stronger than the shot noise in the photo-detector even when the optical power is significantly lower than the Brillouin threshold. The low-frequency transmitted intensity noise is caused due to depletion of the pump wave by the stochastic Brillouin wave. Since pump depletion occurs over a long distance, noise with a narrow bandwidth is generated in the transmitted wave. When the pump power is high enough, the spectrum of the induced noise contains features such as hole at low frequencies and ripples. Good quantitative agreement between theory and experiments is obtained. Low-frequency intensity noise induced by Brillouin scattering may limit the generation of ultra-low noise signals in optoelectronic oscillators and may limit the transfer of ultra-low noise signals in fibers.

2011: Publisher’s Note: Propagation of quasisolitons in a fiber Bragg grating written in a slow saturable fiber amplifier [Phys. Rev. A 83 , 053803 (2011)]
Abstract: None

2011: Single-cycle radio-frequency pulse generation by an optoelectronic oscillator.
Abstract: We demonstrate experimentally passive mode-locking of an optoelectronic oscillator which generates a single-cycle radio-frequency pulse train. The measured pulse to pulse jitter was less than 5 ppm of the round-trip duration. The pulse waveform was repeated each round-trip. This result indicates that the relative phase between the pulse envelope and the carrier wave is autonomously locked. The results demonstrate, for the first time, that single-cycle pulses can be directly generated by a passive mode-locked oscillator. The passive mode-locked optoelectronic oscillator is important for developing novel radars and radio-frequency pulsed sources and it enables studying directly the physics of single-cycle pulse generation.

