2024: The Relative Importance of the Contrast and Assimilation Effects in Decisions Under Risk
Abstract: Past research on decisions under risk has documented two contradictory context effects: the contrast effect, where risk preferences in “target” tasks diverge from those in previous “surrounding” tasks, and the assimilation effect that implies the opposite bias. We present four web experiments (three preregistered) that clarify the conditions determining the relative prominence of these opposing effects. Our experiments focus on choice patterns in “target” tasks where participants choose between the status quo and a risky mixed gamble with an expected value of zero. Study 1 examines the impact of surroundings that differ from the target task with respect to the expected benefit from risk‐taking. The findings reveal a strong contrast effect: Decreasing the attractiveness of risk‐taking in the surrounding tasks increased the risk‐taking rate in the target tasks from 53.2% to 79.7%. Study 2 investigates the impact of surroundings that differ in the payoff domain. The findings indicate a strong assimilation effect: Decreasing the attractiveness of risk‐taking in the surrounding tasks decreased the risk‐taking rate in the target tasks from 74.7% to 36.5%. Additionally, the results revealed unpredicted and robust reversed loss aversion patterns which Studies 3 and 4 further clarify. Our findings (1) suggest that the isolated within‐task computations assumed by leading descriptive models overlook substantial contextual considerations, (2) clarify the factors determining the impact of the contrast and assimilation effects in decisions under risk, and (3) provide a theoretical framework for making useful predictions in various scenarios.

2024: The impact of experience on the tendency to accept recommended defaults
Abstract: 
 Two preregistered web studies are presented that explore the impact of experience on the tendency to accept recommended defaults. In each of the 100 trials, participants (n = 180, n = 165) could accept a recommended default option or choose a less attractive prospect. The location of the options (left or right) was randomly determined before each trial. Both studies compared two conditions. Under Condition Dominant, the default option maximized participants’ payoff in all trials. Under Condition Protective, the default option protected the participants from rare losses and maximized expected return but decreased payoff in most trials. The results reveal a tendency to accept the default in Condition Dominant but the opposite tendency in Condition Protective. This pattern was predicted by assuming that in addition to promoting specific actions, the presentation of the default changes the set of feasible strategies, and choice between these strategies reflects reliance on small samples of past experiences.

2024: The prediction‐oriented middle ground between behaviorist and cognitivist consumer research
Abstract: Classic behaviorist and cognitivist approaches to consumer research are based on very different assumptions concerning the nature of the cognitive processes that drive consumption. Classic behaviorist research assumes that the underlying cognitive processes are extremely complex, and the effort to model them is not likely to lead to useful insights. In contrast, classic cognitivist research assumes that the underlying cognitive processes can be precisely captured with simple cognitive models. The current paper highlights the value of a middle ground. This middle ground favors the assumption that while the underlying processes are highly complex, their impact can be approximated with prediction‐oriented cognitive models. The potential of this approach is illustrated with a review of previous research demonstrating how a simple prediction‐oriented model can shed light on four interesting consumption puzzles: Buying and not using, the backfiring of certain safety devices, too much and insufficient checking, and underconsumption and overconsumption.

2024: The interface between machine learning, artificial intelligence, and
 decision research.
Abstract: None

2023: Call for papers – Special issue in memory of Amnon Rapoport: Experimental Economics
Abstract: None

2023: Conformity and Group Performance
Abstract: None

2023: The common origin of both oversimplified and overly complex decision rules
Abstract: Many deviations from rational choice imply the neglect of important evidence and suggest the use of simple heuristics. In contrast, other deviations imply sensitivity to irrelevant evidence and suggest the use of overly complex rules. The current analysis takes two steps toward identifying the conditions that trigger these contradictory deviations from efficient reasoning. The first step involves a theoretical analysis. It shows that the contradictory deviations can be captured without assuming the use of rules of different complexity in different settings. Both deviations can be the product of a reliance on small samples of similar past experiences. This reliance on small samples triggers apparent overcomplexity when the optimal rule is simple, but more complex rules yield better outcomes in most cases; the opposite tendency, oversimplification, emerges when the optimal rule is complex, and simple rules yield better outcomes in most cases. The second step involves a preregistered experiment with 325 participants (Mechanical Turk workers). The experiment shows that human decision makers exhibit the pattern predicted by the reliance-on-small-samples assumption. In the experiment, participants chose between the status quo and a risky alternative in a multi-attribute decision with three binary cues. They used uninforma-tive cues when this strategy was best in most cases yet ignored two informative cues when this strategy was best in most cases. In addition, describing the cues as recommendations given by three experts increased the tendency to follow the modal recommendation (even when reliance on only one of the experts was optimal), but people still behaved as though they relied on a small sample of past experiences

2023: Humans as intuitive classifiers
Abstract: Mainstream decision research rests on two implicit working assumptions, inspired by subjective expected utility theory. The first assumes that the underlying processes can be separated into judgment and decision-making stages without affecting their outcomes. The second assumes that in properly run experiments, the presentation of a complete description of the incentive structure replaces the judgment stage (and eliminates the impact of past experiences that can only affect judgment). While these working assumptions seem reasonable and harmless, the current paper suggests that they impair the derivation of useful predictions. The negative effect of the separation assumption is clarified by the predicted impact of rare events. Studies that separate judgment from decision making document oversensitivity to rare events, but without the separation people exhibit the opposite bias. The negative effects of the assumed impact of description include masking the large and predictable effect of past experiences on the way people use descriptions. We propose that the cognitive processes that underlie decision making are more similar to machine learning classification algorithms than to a two-stage probability judgment and utility weighting process. Our analysis suggests that clear insights can be obtained even when the number of feasible classes is very large, and the effort to list the rules that best describe behavior in each class is of limited value.

2022: Heterogeneous heterogeneity: Comment on Regenwetter et al. (2022).
Abstract: None

2022: Promoting healthy behavior through repeated deposit contracts: An intervention study
Abstract: None

2022: Decisions from valuations of unknown payoff distributions.
Abstract: None

2022: On the descriptive value of the reliance on small-samples assumption
Abstract: Experience is the best teacher. Yet, in the context of repeated decisions, experience was found to trigger deviations from maximization in the direction of underweighting of rare events. Evaluations of alternative explanations for this bias led to contradicting conclusions. Studies that focused on the aggregate choice rates, including a series of choice prediction competitions, favored the assumption that this bias reflects reliance on small samples. In contrast, studies that focused on individual decisions suggest that the bias reflects a strong myopic tendency by a significant minority of participants. The current analysis clarifies the apparent inconsistency by reanalyzing a data set that previously led to contradicting conclusions. Our analysis suggests that the apparent inconsistency reflects the differing focus of the cognitive models. Specifically, sequential adjustment models (that assume sensitivity to the payoffs’ weighted averages) tend to find support for the hypothesis that the deviations from maximization are a product of strong positive recency (a form of myopia). Conversely, models assuming random sampling of past experiences tend to find support to the hypothesis that the deviations reflect reliance on small samples. We propose that the debate should be resolved by using the assumptions that provide better predictions. Applying this solution to the data set we analyzed shows that the random sampling assumption outperforms the weighted average assumption both when predicting the aggregate choice rates and when predicting the individual decisions.

2022: The impact of experience on decisions based on pre-choice samples and the face-or-cue hypothesis
Abstract: None

2022: Conformity and Group Adaptability
Abstract: None

2022: Encouraging COVID-19 vaccination through behaviorally informed reminders: Results from a national randomized field experiment in Israel
Abstract: Inducing people to get vaccinated is critical for controlling the spread of COVID-19. We explored the effectiveness of two text messaging strategies for encouraging unvaccinated individuals to get their COVID-19 vaccination. One message emphasized social norms to harness people's tendency to act in ways that line up with society's expectations. The other message underscored the personal medical benefits of vaccination. Both messages indicated that the vaccine was reserved for the recipient at a nearby location. Over the course of eight days, the percentage of people who got vaccinated after receiving the medical benefit message was 2.1% higher than the percentage of people who got vaccinated after receiving the social norm message (p < .001). Our findings indicate that designing vaccination reminders that highlight the medical benefits of vaccination in addition to the availability of the vaccines can increase vaccination rates.

2021: Contradictory Deviations from Maximization: Environment-Specific Biases, or Reflections of Basic Properties of Human Learning?
Abstract: Analyses of human reaction to economic incentives reveal contradictory deviations from maximization. For example, underinvestment in the stock market suggests risk aversion, but insufficient diversification of financial assets suggests risk-seeking. Leading explanations for these contradictions assume that different choice environments (e.g., different framings) trigger different biases. Our analysis shows that variation in the choice environment is not a necessary condition. It demonstrates how certain changes in the incentive structure are sufficient to trigger six pairs of contradictory deviations from maximization even when the choice environment is fixed. Moreover, our analysis shows that the direction of these deviations can be captured by assuming that choice propensities reflect reliance on small samples of past experiences. In order to clarify the underlying processes, we considered distinct models of the reliance on small samples assumption, and compared them to classical models of choice (including prospect theory). The comparison focused on both within-individual, and between-group predictions (based on a preregistered study with 120 new tasks). The results reveal large advantage of "wide sampling" models that (in the static settings we examine) approximate an effort to rely on the most similar past experiences. Surprisingly, we also found that assuming that the parameters reflect stable individual traits impairs predictions; it seems that the number of "most similar past experiences" for each individual varies from task to task. These results suggest that ignoring the predictable impact of the incentive structure can lead to exaggeration of the importance of environment- and individual-specific decision biases. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved).

2021: To predict human choice, consider the context
Abstract: None

2021: Over and under commitment to a course of action in decisions from experience.
Abstract: Many natural activities involve "stopping dilemmas": situations that require a repeated decision between investing effort to achieve some valued goal and stopping that effort to try something else. Previous research into these problems highlights two contradicting biases. While one class of studies suggests a tendency to stop too late (e.g., escalation of commitment), another class of studies suggests a tendency to give up too early (e.g., learned helplessness). Our paper clarifies the conditions that trigger these biases by focusing on two factors: the decision mode (ongoing decisions vs. planning in advance) and the probability each search effort will be costly. We find that experience with stopping dilemmas produces a reversed sunk-cost effect: Most participants stop too early when search is frequently costly but stop too late when search is usually rewarding. This effect can be explained by assuming that stopping decisions reflect reliance on small samples of past experiences with similar stopping dilemmas. Comparison of ongoing and planning decisions reveals an interaction: planning in advance increased search when searching was frequently costly, but decreased search when most search efforts were rewarding. This interaction can be explained by assuming a contingent re-evaluation process: Recent losses increase the tendency to reevaluate a plan to continue the search, and recent gains increase the tendency to reevaluate a plan to stop. In addition, we observe a preference for stopping strategies that imply maximal search. We assume this reflects an attempt to explore the full problem space. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved).

2021: Encouraging Uptake of the COVID-19 Vaccine Through Behaviorally Informed Interventions: National Real-World Evidence From Israel
Abstract: The current paper clarifies the value of two methods to encourage COVID-19 vaccination: Simple nudge reminders, and regulation that increases the benefit from vaccination. Our analysis of reminders is based on a controlled experiment. The results reveal that in the current context a reminder that emphasizes personal benefit is 9% more effective than a social benefit nudge. Our analysis of regulations can be described as a case study. It suggests that the green pass policy implemented in Israel on February 21, 2021 (and relaxes the social distance constraints for vaccinated individuals) was associated with an increase of 20% in the vaccination rate. We conclude with a discussion of the conditions that determine the relative effectiveness of personal benefit nudges

2021: Prediction oriented behavioral research and its relationship to classical decision research
Abstract: This paper argues that two of the common methods used in behavioral and social sciences to reduce the chances that models overfit the available data, namely heavy reliance on benchmark models and rigorous parameter estimation techniques, can slow the advancement of these sciences. An examination of classical decision research highlights how applying these methods shaped the field but have also led to limited success. As an alternative, the paper proposes a prediction-oriented approach to the development of behavioral models. Evaluating and comparing models based on their predictive power inherently guards against overfitting and also facilitates accumulation of knowledge. The paper reviews research employing the prediction-oriented approach in behavioral decision research and demonstrates that, in contrast to a common misconception, the focus on predictions can also facilitate better understanding of the underlying processes.

