Recent papers for Irad Yavneh:

2023: A Mini-Batch Quasi-Newton Proximal Method for Constrained Total-Variation Nonlinear Image Reconstruction
Abstract: Over the years, computational imaging with accurate nonlinear physical models has drawn considerable interest due to its ability to achieve high-quality reconstructions. However, such nonlinear models are computationally demanding. A popular choice for solving the corresponding inverse problems is accelerated stochastic proximal methods (ASPMs), with the caveat that each iteration is expensive. To overcome this issue, we propose a mini-batch quasi-Newton proximal method (BQNPM) tailored to image-reconstruction problems with total-variation regularization. It involves an efficient approach that computes a weighted proximal mapping at a cost similar to that of the proximal mapping in ASPMs. However, BQNPM requires fewer iterations than ASPMs to converge. We assess the performance of BQNPM on three-dimensional inverse-scattering problems with linear and nonlinear physical models. Our results on simulated and real data show the effectiveness and efficiency of BQNPM,

2022: pISTA: preconditioned Iterative Soft Thresholding Algorithm for Graphical Lasso
Abstract: We propose a novel quasi-Newton method for solving the sparse inverse covariance estimation problem also known as the graphical least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (GLASSO). This problem is often solved using a second-order quadratic approximation. However, in such algorithms the Hessian term is complex and computationally expensive to handle. Therefore, our method uses the inverse of the Hessian as a preconditioner to simplify and approximate the quadratic element at the cost of a more complex \(\ell_1\) element. The variables of the resulting preconditioned problem are coupled only by the \(\ell_1\) sub-derivative of each other, which can be guessed with minimal cost using the gradient itself, allowing the algorithm to be parallelized and implemented efficiently on GPU hardware accelerators. Numerical results on synthetic and real data demonstrate that our method is competitive with other state-of-the-art approaches.

2021: On adapting Nesterov's scheme to accelerate iterative methods for linear problems
Abstract: Nesterov's well‐known scheme for accelerating gradient descent in convex optimization problems is adapted to accelerating stationary iterative solvers for linear systems. Compared with classical Krylov subspace acceleration methods, the proposed scheme requires more iterations, but it is trivial to implement and retains essentially the same computational cost as the unaccelerated method. An explicit formula for a fixed optimal parameter is derived in the case where the stationary iteration matrix has only real eigenvalues, based only on the smallest and largest eigenvalues. The fixed parameter and corresponding convergence factor are shown to maintain their optimality when the iteration matrix also has complex eigenvalues that are contained within an explicitly defined disk in the complex plane. A comparison to Chebyshev acceleration based on the same information of the smallest and largest real eigenvalues (dubbed restricted information Chebyshev acceleration) demonstrates that Nesterov's scheme is more robust in the sense that it remains optimal over a larger domain when the iteration matrix does have some complex eigenvalues. Numerical tests validate the efficiency of the proposed scheme. This work generalizes and extends the results of [14, lemmas 3.1 and 3.2 and theorem 3.3].

2021: Special Section: 2020 Copper Mountain Conference
Abstract: None

2020: Adjustable Coins
Abstract: Abstract In this paper we consider a scenario where there are several algorithms for solving a given problem. Each algorithm is associated with a probability of success and a cost, and there is also a penalty for failing to solve the problem. The user may run one algorithm at a time for the specified cost, or give up and pay the penalty. The probability of success may be implied by randomization in the algorithm, or by assuming a probability distribution on the input space, which lead to different variants of the problem. The goal is to minimize the expected cost of the process under the assumption that the algorithms are independent. We study several variants of this problem, and present possible solution strategies and a hardness result.

2020: Learning Algebraic Multigrid Using Graph Neural Networks
Abstract: Efficient numerical solvers for sparse linear systems are crucial in science and engineering. One of the fastest methods for solving large-scale sparse linear systems is algebraic multigrid (AMG). The main challenge in the construction of AMG algorithms is the selection of the prolongation operator -- a problem-dependent sparse matrix which governs the multiscale hierarchy of the solver and is critical to its efficiency. Over many years, numerous methods have been developed for this task, and yet there is no known single right answer except in very special cases. Here we propose a framework for learning AMG prolongation operators for linear systems with sparse symmetric positive (semi-) definite matrices. We train a single graph neural network to learn a mapping from an entire class of such matrices to prolongation operators, using an efficient unsupervised loss function. Experiments on a broad class of problems demonstrate improved convergence rates compared to classical AMG, demonstrating the potential utility of neural networks for developing sparse system solvers.

2020: On the recursive structure of multigrid cycles
Abstract: A new non-adaptive recursive scheme for multigrid algorithms is introduced. Governed by a positive parameter $\kappa$ called the cycle counter, this scheme generates a family of multigrid cycles dubbed $\kappa$-cycles. The well-known $V$-cycle, $F$-cycle, and $W$-cycle are shown to be particular members of this rich $\kappa$-cycle family, which satisfies the property that the total number of recursive calls in a single cycle is a polynomial of degree $\kappa$ in the number of levels of the cycle. This broadening of the scope of fixed multigrid cycles is shown to be potentially significant for the solution of some large problems on platforms, such as GPU processors, where the overhead induced by recursive calls may be relatively significant. In cases of problems for which the convergence of standard $V$-cycles or $F$-cycles (corresponding to $\kappa=1$ and $\kappa=2$, respectively) is particularly slow, and yet the cost of $W$-cycles is very high due to the large number of recursive calls (which is in exponential in the number of levels), intermediate values of $\kappa$ may prove to yield significantly faster run-times. This is demonstrated in examples where $\kappa$-cycles are used for the solution of rotated anisotropic diffusion problems, both as a stand-alone solver and as a preconditioner. Moreover, a simple model is presented for predicting the approximate run-time of the $\kappa$-cycle, which is useful in pre-selecting an appropriate cycle counter for a given problem on a given platform. Implementing the $\kappa$-cycle requires making just a small change in the classical multigrid cycle.

2019: Solving RED With Weighted Proximal Methods
Abstract: REgularization by Denoising (RED) is an attractive framework for solving inverse problems by incorporating state-of-the-art denoising algorithms as the priors. A drawback of this approach is the high computational complexity of denoisers, which dominate the computation time. In this paper, we apply a general framework called weighted proximal methods (WPMs) to solve RED efficiently. We first show that two recently introduced RED solvers (using the fixed point and accelerated proximal gradient methods) are particular cases of WPMs. Then we show by numerical experiments that slightly more sophisticated variants of WPM can lead to reduced run times for RED by requiring a significantly smaller number of calls to the denoiser.

2019: Learning to Optimize Multigrid PDE Solvers
Abstract: Constructing fast numerical solvers for partial differential equations (PDEs) is crucial for many scientific disciplines. A leading technique for solving large-scale PDEs is using multigrid methods. At the core of a multigrid solver is the prolongation matrix, which relates between different scales of the problem. This matrix is strongly problem-dependent, and its optimal construction is critical to the efficiency of the solver. In practice, however, devising multigrid algorithms for new problems often poses formidable challenges. In this paper we propose a framework for learning multigrid solvers. Our method learns a (single) mapping from a family of parameterized PDEs to prolongation operators. We train a neural network once for the entire class of PDEs, using an efficient and unsupervised loss function. Experiments on a broad class of 2D diffusion problems demonstrate improved convergence rates compared to the widely used Black-Box multigrid scheme, suggesting that our method successfully learned rules for constructing prolongation matrices.

2019: Special Section: 2018 Copper Mountain Conference
Abstract: The Eighteenth Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods was held March 25--30, 2018, in Copper Mountain, Colorado. The meeting featured more than 170 presentations on a broad range of topics...

2019: Solving RED via Weighted Proximal Methods
Abstract: REgularization by Denoising (RED) is a recently introduced framework for solving inverse problems by incorporating state-of-the-art denoising algorithms as the priors. Actually, RED shows that solving inverse problems amounts to iterated denoising processes. However, the complexity of denoisers is generally high, which may lead to an overall slow algorithm for solving RED. In this paper, we apply a general framework named weighted proximal methods (WPMs) to address RED efficiently. Moreover, we also show two existing solvers (namely the fixed point and accelerated proximal gradient methods) for RED are two special variants of WPMs. Numerical experiments show that we can obtain a more efficient variant of WPMs for handling RED if an effective weighting is set.

2018: Comparing evolutionary distances via adaptive distance functions.
Abstract: None

2018: Accelerating Multigrid Optimization via SESOP
Abstract: A merger of two optimization frameworks is introduced: SEquential Subspace OPtimization (SESOP) with the MultiGrid (MG) optimization. At each iteration of the algorithm, search directions implied by the coarse-grid correction (CGC) process of MG are added to the low dimensional search-spaces of SESOP, which include the (preconditioned) gradient and search directions involving the previous iterates (so-called history). The resulting accelerated technique is called SESOP-MG. The asymptotic convergence factor of the two-level version of SESOP-MG (dubbed SESOP-TG) is studied via Fourier mode analysis for linear problems, i.e., optimization of quadratic functionals. Numerical tests on linear and nonlinear problems demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.

2018: Merging Multigrid Optimization with SESOP
Abstract: A merger of two optimization frameworks is introduced: SEquential Subspace OPtimization (SESOP) with MultiGrid (MG) optimization. At each iteration of the algorithm, the search direction implied by the coarse-grid correction process of MG is added to the low dimensional search-space of SESOP, which includes the preconditioned gradient and search directions involving the previous iterates, called {\em history}. Numerical experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach. We then study the asymptotic convergence factor of the two-level version of SESOP-MG (dubbed SESOP-TG) for optimization of quadratic functions, and derive approximately optimal fixed parameters, which may reduce the computational overhead for such problems significantly.

2017: Adaptive methods for computing and comparing evolutionary distances
Abstract: 1

2016: A Multilevel Framework for Sparse Optimization with Application to Inverse Covariance Estimation and Logistic Regression
Abstract: Solving l1 regularized optimization problems is common in the fields of computational biology, signal processing and machine learning. Such l1 regularization is utilized to find sparse minimizers of convex functions. A well-known example is the LASSO problem, where the l1 norm regularizes a quadratic function. A multilevel framework is presented for solving such l1 regularized sparse optimization problems efficiently. We take advantage of the expected sparseness of the solution, and create a hierarchy of problems of similar type, which is traversed in order to accelerate the optimization process. This framework is applied for solving two problems: (1) the sparse inverse covariance estimation problem, and (2) l1-regularized logistic regression. In the first problem, the inverse of an unknown covariance matrix of a multivariate normal distribution is estimated, under the assumption that it is sparse. To this end, an l1 regularized log-determinant optimization problem needs to be solved. This task is challenging especially for large-scale datasets, due to time and memory limitations. In the second problem, the l1-regularization is added to the logistic regression classification objective to reduce overfitting to the data and obtain a sparse model. Numerical experiments demonstrate the efficiency of the multilevel framework in accelerating existing iterative solvers for both of these problems.

2015: Fusion of ultrasound harmonic imaging with clutter removal using sparse signal separation
Abstract: In ultrasound, second harmonic imaging is usually preferred due to the higher clutter artifacts and speckle noise common in the first harmonic image. Typical ultrasound use either one or the other image, applying corresponding filters for each case. In this work we propose a method based on a joint sparsity model that fuses the first and second harmonic images while performing clutter mitigation and noise reduction. Our approach, Fused Morphological Component Analysis (FMCA), uses two adaptive dictionaries for characterizing the clutter components in each image, and a common dictionary for the tissue representation. Our results indicate that the obtained images contain less clutter artifacts, less speckle noise and as such enjoy of the benefits of both harmonic input images.

2015: A Multiscale Variable-Grouping Framework for MRF Energy Minimization
Abstract: We present a multiscale approach for minimizing the energy associated with Markov Random Fields (MRFs) with energy functions that include arbitrary pairwise potentials. The MRF is represented on a hierarchy of successively coarser scales, where the problem on each scale is itself an MRF with suitably defined potentials. These representations are used to construct an efficient multiscale algorithm that seeks a minimal-energy solution to the original problem. The algorithm is iterative and features a bidirectional crosstalk between fine and coarse representations. We use consistency criteria to guarantee that the energy is nonincreasing throughout the iterative process. The algorithm is evaluated on real-world datasets, achieving competitive performance in relatively short run-times.

2015: Clutter Mitigation in Echocardiography Using Sparse Signal Separation
Abstract: In ultrasound imaging, clutter artifacts degrade images and may cause inaccurate diagnosis. In this paper, we apply a method called Morphological Component Analysis (MCA) for sparse signal separation with the objective of reducing such clutter artifacts. The MCA approach assumes that the two signals in the additive mix have each a sparse representation under some dictionary of atoms (a matrix), and separation is achieved by finding these sparse representations. In our work, an adaptive approach is used for learning the dictionary from the echo data. MCA is compared to Singular Value Filtering (SVF), a Principal Component Analysis- (PCA-) based filtering technique, and to a high-pass Finite Impulse Response (FIR) filter. Each filter is applied to a simulated hypoechoic lesion sequence, as well as experimental cardiac ultrasound data. MCA is demonstrated in both cases to outperform the FIR filter and obtain results comparable to the SVF method in terms of contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR). Furthermore, MCA shows a lower impact on tissue sections while removing the clutter artifacts. In experimental heart data, MCA obtains in our experiments clutter mitigation with an average CNR improvement of 1.33 dB.

2015: Speed limit quasi splines and their application to interpolation with bounded first order derivative
Abstract: The problem of computing spline‐like functions for ideal data, subject to two‐sided inequality constraints on the first‐order derivative, are considered, focusing primarily on constant constraints and then generalizing. Using a variational approach, in which the inequality constraints are not explicitly imposed, a special type of exponential splines we call speed limit quasi splines is introduced. A simple, non‐parametric, efficient, and robust iterative solver is suggested, which is suitable for a wide range of inequality constraints. Analysis of the convergence factor of this algorithm is provided and supported by extensive numerical tests. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

