Recent papers for Itai Arieli:

2024: Receiver-Oriented Cheap Talk Design
Abstract: This paper considers the dynamics of cheap talk interactions between a sender and receiver, departing from conventional models by focusing on the receiver's perspective. We study two models, one with transparent motives and another one in which the receiver can \emph{filter} the information that is accessible by the sender. We give a geometric characterization of the best receiver equilibrium under transparent motives and prove that the receiver does not benefit from filtering information in this case. However, in general, we show that the receiver can strictly benefit from filtering and provide efficient algorithms for computing optimal equilibria. This innovative analysis aligns with user-based platforms where receivers (users) control information accessible to senders (sellers). Our findings provide insights into communication dynamics, leveling the sender's inherent advantage, and offering strategic interaction predictions.

2024: Persuading while Learning
Abstract: We propose a dynamic product adoption persuasion model involving an impatient partially informed sender who gradually learns the state. In this model, the sender gathers information over time, and hence her posteriors' sequence forms a discrete-time martingale. The sender commits to a dynamic revelation policy to persuade the agent to adopt a product. We demonstrate that under the assumption that the sender's martingale possesses Blackwell-preserving kernels, the family of optimal strategies for the sender takes an interval form; namely, in every period the set of martingale realizations in which adoption occurs is an interval. Utilizing this, we prove that if the sender is sufficiently impatient, then under a random walk martingale, the optimal policy is fully transparent up to the moment of adoption; namely, the sender reveals the entire information she privately holds in every period.

2024: Granular DeGroot dynamics - A model for robust naive learning in social networks
Abstract: None

2024: Robust Price Discrimination
Abstract: We consider a model of third-degree price discrimination where the seller's product valuation is unknown to the market designer, who aims to maximize buyer surplus by revealing buyer valuation information. Our main result shows that the regret is bounded by a $\frac{1}{e}$-fraction of the optimal buyer surplus when the seller has zero valuation for the product. This bound is attained by randomly drawing a seller valuation and applying the segmentation of Bergemann et al. (2015) with respect to the drawn valuation. We show that this bound is tight in the case of binary buyer valuation.

2024: Private signals and fast product adoption under incomplete information
Abstract: None

2023: Reputation-based Persuasion Platforms
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a two-stage Bayesian persuasion model in which a third-party platform controls the information available to the sender about users' preferences. We aim to characterize the optimal information disclosure policy of the platform, which maximizes average user utility, under the assumption that the sender also follows its own optimal policy. We show that this problem can be reduced to a model of market segmentation, in which probabilities are mapped into valuations. We then introduce a repeated variation of the persuasion platform problem in which myopic users arrive sequentially. In this setting, the platform controls the sender's information about users and maintains a reputation for the sender, punishing it if it fails to act truthfully on a certain subset of signals. We provide a characterization of the optimal platform policy in the reputation-based setting, which is then used to simplify the optimization problem of the platform.

2023: Private Signals and Fast Product Adoption Under Incomplete Information
Abstract: None

2023: Resilient Information Aggregation
Abstract: In an information aggregation game, a set of senders interact with a receiver through a mediator. Each sender observes the state of the world and communicates a message to the mediator, who recommends an action to the receiver based on the messages received. The payoff of the senders and of the receiver depend on both the state of the world and the action selected by the receiver. This setting extends the celebrated cheap talk model in two aspects: there are many senders (as opposed to just one) and there is a mediator. From a practical perspective, this setting captures platforms in which strategic experts advice is aggregated in service of action recommendations to the user. We aim at finding an optimal mediator/platform that maximizes the users' welfare given highly resilient incentive compatibility requirements on the equilibrium selected: we want the platform to be incentive compatible for the receiver/user when selecting the recommended action, and we want it to be resilient against group deviations by the senders/experts. We provide highly positive answers to this challenge, manifested through efficient algorithms.

2023: Mediated Cheap Talk Design
Abstract: We study an information design problem with two informed senders and a receiver in which, in contrast to traditional Bayesian persuasion settings, senders do not have commitment power. In our setting, a trusted mediator/platform gathers data from the senders and recommends the receiver which action to play. We characterize the set of feasible action distributions that can be obtained in equilibrium, and provide an O(n log n) algorithm (where n is the number of states) that computes the optimal equilibrium for the senders. Additionally, we show that the optimal equilibrium for the receiver can be obtained by a simple revelation mechanism.

2023: The Hazards and Benefits of Condescension in Social Learning
Abstract: In a misspecified social learning setting, agents are condescending if they perceive their peers as having private information that is of lower quality than it is in reality. Applying this to a standard sequential model, we show that outcomes improve when agents are mildly condescending. In contrast, too much condescension leads to worse outcomes, as does anti-condescension.

2023: A Random Dictator Is All You Need
Abstract: We study information aggregation with a decision-maker aggregating binary recommendations from symmetric agents. Each agent’s recommendation depends on her private information about a hidden state. While the decision-maker knows the prior distribution over states and the marginal distribution of each agent’s recommendation, the recommendations are adversarially correlated. The decision-maker’s goal is choosing a robustly optimal aggregation rule. We prove that for a large number of agents for the three standard robustness paradigms (maximin, regret, and approximation ratio), the unique optimal aggregation rule is “random dictator.” We further characterize the minimal regret for any number of agents through concavification. (JEL D81, D82, D83)

2023: Feasible Conditional Belief Distributions
Abstract: Agents receive private signals about an unknown state. The resulting joint belief distributions are complex and lack a simple characterization. Our key insight is that, when conditioned on the state, the structure of belief distributions simplifies: feasibility constrains only the marginal distributions of individual agents across states, with no joint constraints within a state. We apply this insight to multi-receiver persuasion, identifying new tractable cases and introducing optimal transportation and duality tools.

2023: Informationally Robust Cheap-Talk
Abstract: We study the robustness of cheap-talk equilibria to infinitesimal private information of the receiver in a model with a binary state-space and state-independent sender-preferences.

2023: Universally Robust Information Aggregation for Binary Decisions
Abstract: We study a setting with a decision maker making a binary decision by aggregating information from symmetric agents. Each agent provides the decision maker a recommendation depending on her private signal about the hidden state. We assume that agents are truthful - an agent recommends guessing the more likely state based on her information. This assumption is natural if the agents are unaware of how the decision-maker will aggregate their recommendations. While the decision maker has a prior distribution over the hidden state and knows the marginal distribution of each agent's private signal, the correlation between these signals is chosen adversarially. The decision maker's goal is choosing an information aggregation rule that is robustly optimal.

2023: The Value of Mediation in Long Cheap Talk
Abstract: In this paper, we study an extension of the classic long cheap talk equilibrium introduced by Aumann and Hart~\citeN{aumann-hart-03}, and ask how much can the players benefit from having a trusted mediator compared with the standard unmediated model. We focus on a setting where a fully informed sender without commitment power must disclose its information to influence the behavior of a self-interested receiver. We show that, in the case of binary actions, even though a mediator does not help neither the sender nor the receiver directly, it may still allow improving the payoff of an external decision-maker whose utility is affected by the realized state and the receiver's action. Moreover, we show that if there are more than two actions, there exist games in which both the sender and the receiver simultaneously benefit from mediation.

2022: A Population's Feasible Posterior Beliefs
Abstract: We consider a population of Bayesian agents who share a common prior over some finite state space and each agent is exposed to some information about the state. We ask which distributions over empirical distributions of posteriors beliefs in the population are feasible. We provide a necessary and sufficient condition for feasibility. We apply this result in several domains. First, we study the problem of maximizing the polarization of beliefs in a population. Second, we provide a characterization of the feasible agent-symmetric product distributions of posteriors. Finally, we study an instance of a private Bayesian persuasion problem and provide a clean formula for the sender's optimal value.

2022: Herd Design
Abstract: The classic herding model examines the asymptotic behavior of agents who observe their predecessors' actions as well as a private signal from an exogenous information structure. In this paper we introduce a self-interested sender into the model, and study the sender's problem of designing this information structure. If agents cannot observe each other the model reduces to Bayesian persuasion. However, when agents observe predecessors' actions, they may learn from each other, potentially harming the sender. We identify necessary and sufficient conditions under which the sender can nevertheless obtain the same utility as when the agents are unable to observe each other.

2022: Mediated Cheap Talk Design (with proofs)
Abstract: We study an information design problem with two informed senders and a receiver in which, in contrast to traditional Bayesian persuasion settings, senders do not have commit- ment power. In our setting, a trusted mediator/platform gath-ers data from the senders and recommends the receiver which action to play. We characterize the set of implementable action distributions that can be obtained in equilibrium, and provide an O ( n log n ) algorithm (where n is the number of states) that computes the optimal equilibrium for the senders. Additionally, we show that the optimal equilibrium for the receiver can be obtained by a simple revelation mechanism.

2022: Bayesian Persuasion with Mediators
Abstract: An informed sender communicates with an uninformed receiver through a sequence of uninformed mediators; agents' utilities depend on receiver's action and the state. For any number of mediators, the sender's optimal value is characterized. For one mediator, the characterization has a geometric meaning of constrained concavification of sender's utility, optimal persuasion requires the same number of signals as without mediators, and the presence of the mediator is never profitable for the sender. Surprisingly, the second mediator may improve the value but optimal persuasion may require more signals.

2021: Granular DeGroot Dynamics -- a Model for Robust Naive Learning in Social Networks
Abstract: We study a model of opinion exchange in social networks where a state of the world is realized and every agent receives a zero-mean noisy signal of the realized state. It is known from Golub and Jackson [6] that under DeGroot [3] dynamics agents reach a consensus that is close to the state of the world when the network is large. The DeGroot dynamics, however, is highly non-robust and the presence of a single "stubborn agent" that does not adhere to the updating rule can sway the public consensus to any other value. We introduce a variant of DeGroot dynamics that we call 1/m-DeGroot. 1/m-DeGroot dynamics approximates standard DeGroot dynamics to the nearest rational number with m as its denominator and like the DeGroot dynamics it is Markovian and stationary. We show that in contrast to standard DeGroot dynamics, 1/m-DeGroot dynamics is highly robust both to the presence of stubborn agents and to certain types of misspecifications.

