2024: Exploring culinary diversity to enhance Mediterranean diet adherence: A randomized controlled trial
Abstract: None

2024: Don't Give-Up: Why some intervention schemes encourage suboptimal behavior.
Abstract: None

2023: Cognitive limitation or sophistication? Probability matching, wavy recency, and underweighting of rare events are associated with pattern search
Abstract: None

2023: The Effect of Protecting Initial Discoveries on Exploration Behaviors
Abstract: None

2022: Measuring dishonest behavior: Hidden dimensions that matter.
Abstract: None

2022: Intertemporal decisions from experience versus description: Similarities and differences.
Abstract: None

2021: Enforcement policies: Frequency of inspection is more important than the severity of punishment
Abstract: External enforcement policies aimed to reduce violations differ on two key components: the probability of inspection and the severity of punishments. Different lines of research offer competing predictions regarding the relative importance of each component. In three incentive compatible studies, students and Prolific crowdsourcing participants (Ntotal=430) repeatedly faced temptations to commit violations under two enforcement policies. Controlling for expected value, the results indicated that a policy combining High probability of Inspection with Low Severity of fine (HILS) was more effective than a policy combining Low probability of Inspection with High Severity of fine (LIHS). Consistent with the prediction of Decisions from Experience research, this finding held even when the severity of the fine was stated in advance to boost deterrence. In addition, the advantage of HILS over LIHS was greater as participants’ baseline rate of violation (without enforcement) was higher, implying that HILS is more effective among frequent offenders.

2021: Promoting Healthy Eating Behaviors by Incentivizing Exploration of Healthy Alternatives
Abstract: Incentive-based intervention programs aimed at promoting healthy eating behaviors usually focus on incentivizing repeating the desired behavior. Unfortunately, even when effective, these interventions are often short-lived and do not lead to a lasting behavioral change. We present a new type of intervention program focused on incentivizing exploration of new healthy alternatives rather than incentivizing repeated healthy behaviors. This intervention aims to help participants find long-lasting “personal treasures” —new foods that are both healthy and tasty for them. Our field study included a final sample of 48 students with low or medium daily consumption of fresh salads. Participants in the control group received a fixed payment for completing the program, while the participants in the incentivized exploration group received a lower fixed fee for completing the task and a bonus for each new salad they tried. Results show that participants in the incentivized exploration group reported eating more salads even 1 year after the program ended compared to the participants in the control group. Though preliminary, our results paint a promising picture for the successful application of incentivizing exploration interventions to promote healthy lifestyle.

2021: On the effect of perceived patterns in decisions from sampling.
Abstract: Many real-life choices are based on previous experiences. Research devoted to these decisions from experience has typically employed static settings, where the probability of a given outcome is constant across trials. However, recent studies of repeated choice suggest that people tend to follow perceived patterns of outcomes even when true patterns do not exist (i.e., in static settings). Here we examine whether the tendency to follow perceived patterns above and beyond external incentives also characterize decisions from sampling. To this aim, we modified the static sampling paradigm to include a conspicuous sequence of outcomes while the incentive dictated disregarding the sequence. In two studies we found a strong tendency to follow the fixed pattern of outcomes. This tendency was evident not only in sampling choices where following the pattern required additional effort and did not provide additional information. The same tendency was also evident in participant’s final consequential choices, where following the pattern impaired financial returns. The results were replicated after ensuring comprehension of the task, doubling the expected payoffs and also under partial feedback design. Overall, our results suggest that decisions from sampling, like repeated consequential choice, reflect a strong tendency to follow perceived environmental regularities. Our results are consistent with the assumption that during free sampling and during consequential choice, most participants respond to when (i.e., on which specific trials) each of the options is better rather than to which option is better overall (i.e., implies a more attractive distribution of outcomes).

2021: Frequency of enforcement is more important than the severity of punishment in reducing violation behaviors
Abstract: Significance Ramifications of seemingly small violations, such as not adhering to COVID-19 regulations, accumulate fast with dire social consequences. The high costs of close monitoring and severe sanctions often lead policymakers to prioritize either the probability of inspection or the severity of punishments. Using common one-shot, descriptive settings, findings from experimental economics support the superiority of severe punishments, whereas findings from behavioral ethics highlight the role of internal rather than external enforcement. However, these settings are estranged from real-life environments in which learning about the external enforcement policy naturally occurs via repeated experience. Using a more ecologically valid, experience-based setting, we found robust evidence for the greater effectiveness of frequent small punishments over rare severe punishments in reducing violations. External enforcement policies aimed to reduce violations differ on two key components: the probability of inspection and the severity of the punishment. Different lines of research offer different insights regarding the relative importance of each component. In four studies, students and Prolific crowdsourcing participants (Ntotal = 816) repeatedly faced temptations to commit violations under two enforcement policies. Controlling for expected value, we found that a policy combining a high probability of inspection with a low severity of fines (HILS) was more effective than an economically equivalent policy that combined a low probability of inspection with a high severity of fines (LIHS). The advantage of prioritizing inspection frequency over punishment severity (HILS over LIHS) was greater for participants who, in the absence of enforcement, started out with a higher violation rate. Consistent with studies of decisions from experience, frequent enforcement with small fines was more effective than rare severe fines even when we announced the severity of the fine in advance to boost deterrence. In addition, in line with the phenomenon of underweighting of rare events, the effect was stronger when the probability of inspection was rarer (as in most real-life inspection probabilities) and was eliminated under moderate inspection probabilities. We thus recommend that policymakers looking to effectively reduce recurring violations among noncriminal populations should consider increasing inspection rates rather than punishment severity.

2021: On the Effect of Practice on Exploration and Exploitation of Options and Strategies
Abstract: Insufficient exploration of one’s surroundings is at the root of many real-life problems, as demonstrated by many famous biases (e.g., the status quo bias, learned helplessness). The current work focuses on the emergence of this phenomenon at the strategy level: the tendency to under-explore the set of available choice strategies. We demonstrate that insufficient exploration of strategies can also manifest as excessive exploration between options. In such cases, interventions aimed at improving choices by reducing the costs of exploration of options are likely to fail. In Study 1, participants faced an exploration task that implies an infinite number of choice strategies and a small sub-set of (near) optimal solutions. We manipulated the amount of practice participants underwent during the first, shorter game and compared their performance in a second, longer game with an identical payoff structure. Our results show that regardless of the amount of practice, participants in all experimental groups tended to under-explore the strategy space and relied on a specific strategy that implied over-exploration of the option space. That is, under-exploration of strategies was manifested as over-exploration of options. In Study 2, we added a constraint that, on a subset of practice trials, forced participants to exploit familiar options. This manipulation almost doubled the per-trial average outcome on the comparable longer second game. This suggests that forcing participants to experience the effects of different (underexplored) strategy components during practice can greatly increase the chance they make better choices later on.

2020: Satisficing, meta-reasoning, and the rationality of further deliberation
Abstract: David Over has made seminal contributions to the study of human rationality, most memorably in the now-classic distinction, made in collaboration with Jonathan Evans, between normative and instrumental rationality. In this chapter, we discuss an under-explored aspect born of the tension between the two: the rationality of searching for further choice options. We review several candidates for a model of further deliberation, including classic Bayesian decision theory, bounded rationality, and the research domain concerned with the “secretary problem.” We demonstrate how none of these can satisfy the twin adequacy criteria calling for an account of processing as well as an account of rationality. We then present a model based on a proposal made in Douven (2002) and the psychological model of meta-reasoning. We conclude with implications for human rationality. SATISFICING, META-REASONING, FURTHER DELIBERATION 3 Satisficing, Meta-reasoning, and the Rationality of Further Deliberation

2020: The influence of biased exposure to forgone outcomes
Abstract: Funding information I-CORE program of the Planning and Budgeting Committee and the Israel Science Foundation, Grant/Award Number: 1821/12 Abstract After making decisions, we often get feedback concerning forgone outcomes (what would have happened had we chosen differently). Yet, many times, our exposure to such feedback is systematically biased. For example, your friends are more likely to tell you about a party you missed if it was fun than if it was boring. Despite its prevalence, the effects of biased exposure to forgone outcomes on future choice have not been directly studied. In three studies (five experiments) using a simplified learning task, we study the basic influence of biased exposure to forgone outcomes in the extreme case in which decision makers can easily infer the missing information such that the biased exposure carries almost no informational value. The results in all studies suggest that nevertheless, the biased exposure to forgone outcomes affected choice. Exposure to forgone outcomes only when they were better than the obtained outcomes (Only-Better-Forgone) increased selections of the forgone option compared with exposure to forgone outcomes only when they were worse than the obtained outcome (Only-Worse-Forgone). Moreover, relative to an unbiased exposure to all forgone outcomes, the effect of exposure to Only-Worse-Forgone was larger than the effect of exposure to Only-Better-Forgone feedback. However, these effects were not universal: In environments that include rare negative events (“disasters”), biased exposure to forgone outcomes had very little effect. We raise potential explanations and further discuss implications for marketing and risk awareness.

2020: Exploring the usefulness of medical clowns in elevating satisfaction and reducing aggressive tendencies in pediatric and adult hospital wards
Abstract: None

2020: A 360-Degree Examination of the Placement Fit of Medical Clowns
Abstract: 
 Background – Most existing research on medical clowns in health care service has investigated their usefulness among child health consumers. In a 360-degree research stream, we aim to identify the optimal audience (adults or children health consumers), for which medical clowns are most useful in enhancing health consumers’ satisfaction and, in turn, reducing their aggressive tendencies.Methods – We conducted three studies, which examined the placement fit of medical clowns from a different point of view: medical staff (Study 1a, n = 88), medical clowns (Study 1b, n = 20), and health consumers (Study 2, n = 397).Results – Studies 1a and 1b demonstrate that both medical staff and clowns believe that child health consumers profit most from the clowns. In Study 2, data from health consumers in seven different hospital wards showed that clowns are useful in mitigating the effect of negative affectivity on satisfaction, thereby reducing aggressive tendencies among children. Surprisingly, the effect of medical clowns on adults is not only weaker, but reversed, such that interactions with medical clowns decrease adults’ satisfaction and increase their aggressive tendencies.Discussion - The medical clowns are most useful in elevating satisfaction and reducing aggressive tendencies of children. However, older adults show lower satisfaction and higher aggressive tendencies following the performance of the medical clown. The main limitation of the study is investigating aggressive tendencies rather than actual aggression. Future research should examine actual aggression.Conclusion – Medical clowns should be placed in children’s wards. This conclusion can guide health care service policy makers by indicating the optimal placement of clowns, thereby benefitting most from the clowns’ efforts, elevating health consumer satisfaction, and reducing aggressive tendencies.Trial registration – article doesn’t report a health care intervention on human participants.

2019: The Truth About Lies: A Meta-Analysis on Dishonest Behavior
Abstract: Over the past decade, a large and growing body of experimental research has analyzed dishonest behavior. Yet the findings as to when people engage in (dis)honest behavior are to some extent unclear and even contradictory. A systematic analysis of the factors associated with dishonest behavior thus seems desirable. This meta-analysis reviews four of the most widely used experimental paradigms: sender–receiver games, die-roll tasks, coin-flip tasks, and matrix tasks. We integrate data from 565 experiments (totaling N = 44,050 choices) to address many of the ongoing debates on who behaves dishonestly and under what circumstances. Our findings show that dishonest behavior depends on both situational factors, such as reward magnitude and externalities, and personal factors, such as the participant’s gender and age. Further, laboratory studies are associated with more dishonesty than field studies, and the use of deception in experiments is associated with less dishonesty. To some extent, the different experimental paradigms come to different conclusions. For example, a comparable percentage of people lie in die-roll and matrix tasks, but in die-roll tasks liars lie to a considerably greater degree. We also find substantial evidence for publication bias in almost all measures of dishonest behavior. Future research on dishonesty would benefit from more representative participant pools and from clarifying why the different experimental paradigms yield different conclusions.

2019: The effect of switching costs on choice-inertia and its consequences
Abstract: In two studies we provide a novel investigation into the effects of monetary switching costs on choice-inertia (i.e., selection of the same option on consecutive choices). Study 1 employed a static decisions-from-feedback task and found that the introduction of, as well as larger, monetary switching costs led to increases in choice-inertia. While experience and decreases in the similarity of options average payouts (expected value: EV) increased choice-inertia for the option with a higher EV (the EV maximizing option), switching costs increased choice-inertia for the inferior option (the lower EV option): The proportion of total participants showing choice-inertia for the EV maximizing option also increased with switching costs. Study 2 employed a dynamic decisions-from-feedback task where halfway through the task the EV maximizing option became the inferior option. The effect of switching costs increasing choice-inertia for both the EV maximizing and the inferior option was replicated with little impact of the change in options values being detected. In sum, decision makers appear to be sensitive to switching costs, and this sensitivity can bias them towards inferior or superior options, revealing the good and the bad of choice-inertia.

2019: Perceived patterns in decisions from experience and their influence on choice variability and policy diversification: A response to Ashby, Konstantinidis, & Yechiam, 2017.
Abstract: None

2018: Post-decision search in repeated and variable environments
Abstract: When faced with a decision, people collect information to help them decide. Though it may seem unnecessary, people often continue to search for information about alternatives after they have already chosen an option, even if this choice is irreversible (e.g., checking out other cars after just purchasing one). While previous post-decision search studies focused on “one-shot” decisions and highlighted its irrational aspects, here we explore the possible benefits of post-decision search in the long run. We use a simple search task in which participants repeatedly decide whether to select the current alternative or continue to search for a better alternative. In a preliminary study we find that participants indeed conduct post-decision search even in unique environments, where information about forgone options cannot be used in future choices. In the main studies exposure to post-decision information was manipulated directly in unique environments, and was found to lead to better performance. The source of the observed improvement was further investigated with an explicit strategy elicitation methodology. We find that following exposure to post-decision information, people collect more data before generating thresholds. Thus, although post-decision search in unique environments might appear redundant, our results suggest it can help decision makers to modify their strategy and improve their future choices.

2017: 10-U: to Search Or Not to Search? Exploring Consumer’S Sensitivity to Task Importance
Abstract: None

