Recent papers for Kornblum Lior:

2024: Rational Design and Fabrication of Block Copolymer Templated Hafnium Oxide Nanostructures
Abstract: None

2024: The Role of Interface Band Alignment in Epitaxial SrTiO3/GaAs Heterojunctions
Abstract: Correlated oxides are known to have remarkable properties, with a range of electronic, magnetic, optoelectronic, and photonic functionalities. A key ingredient in realizing these properties into practical technology is the effective and scalable integration of oxides with conventional semiconductors. Unlocking the full spectrum of functionality requires atomically abrupt oxide–semiconductor interfaces and intimate knowledge of their potential landscape and charge transport. In this study, we investigated the electrical properties of epitaxial SrTiO3/GaAs heterostructures by examining the band alignment and transport behavior at the interface. We employ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to measure the barriers for electrons and holes across the interface and, through them, explain the transport behavior for junctions with n- and p-type GaAs. We further show qualitative evidence of the strong photoresponse of these structures, illustrating the potential of these structures in optoelectronic devices. These results establish the fundamental groundwork for utilizing these interfaces toward new devices and define their design space.

2024: Enhanced Superconductivity in SrTiO$_3$-based Interfaces via Amorphous Al2O3 Capping
Abstract: Oxide interfaces feature unique two-dimensional (2D) electronic systems with diverse electronic properties such as tunable spin-orbit interaction and superconductivity. Conductivity emerges in these interfaces when the thickness of an epitaxial polar layer surpasses a critical value, leading to charge transfer to the interface. Here, we show that depositing amorphous alumina on top of the polar oxide can reduce the critical thickness and enhance the superconducting properties for the (111) and the (100) SrTiO$_3$-based interfaces. A detailed transmission electron microscopy analysis reveals that the enhancement of the superconducting properties is linked to the expansion of the LaAlO$_3$ lattice in a direction perpendicular to the interface. We propose that the increase in the superconducting critical temperature, Tc, is a result of epitaxial strain

2024: Drift of Schottky Barrier Height in Phase Change Materials
Abstract: Phase-change memory (PCM) devices have great potential as multilevel memory cells and artificial synapses for neuromorphic computing hardware. However, their practical use is hampered by resistance drift, a phenomenon commonly attributed to structural relaxation or electronic mechanisms primarily in the context of bulk effects. In this study, we reevaluate the electrical manifestation of resistance drift in sub-100 nm Ge2Sb2Te5 (GST) PCM devices, focusing on the contributions of bulk vs interface effects. We employ a combination of measurement techniques to elucidate the current transport mechanism and the electrical manifestation of resistance drift. Our steady-state temperature-dependent measurements reveal that resistance in these devices is predominantly influenced by their electrical contacts, with conduction occurring through thermionic emission (Schottky) at the contacts. Additionally, temporal current–voltage characterization allows us to link the resistance drift to a time-dependent increase in the Schottky barrier height. These findings provide valuable insights, pinpointing the primary contributor to resistance drift in PCM devices: the Schottky barrier height for hole injection at the interface. This underscores the significance of contacts (interface) in the electrical manifestation of drift in PCM devices.

2024: Toward Monolithic GaN on Si Inter-Sub-Band Infrared Optoelectronics
Abstract: We have successfully demonstrated the first CMOS-compatible monolithic epitaxial integration of GaN-based infrared (IR) detectors on Si. The device is a GaN/AlGaN quantum cascade detector (QCD) grown selectively in windows on a 4-in Si (111) substrate using plasma-assisted molecular beam epitaxy. The CMOS compatibility of the QCD growth method was verified by applying it to Si circuitry fabricated on (100) surface of a double hetero-oriented silicon on insulator (SOI) substrate. The photo signal, centered at a wavelength of 4.6 <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$\mu \text{m}$ </tex-math></inline-formula>, was measured at 110 K. The zero-bias responsivity of 81 <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$\mu \text{A}$ </tex-math></inline-formula>/W at 18 K and detectivity of <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$1.2\times 10^{{7}}$ </tex-math></inline-formula> Jones were recorded.

2024: Surface matters: A case study of the scale and impact of oxide surfaces via orbital polarization
Abstract: Transition metal oxides (TMOs) exhibit a broad spectrum of functional electronic, magnetic, and optical properties, making them attractive for various technological applications. The scale and impact of surface defects and inhomogeneity can extend many unit cells below the surface. Overlooking this aspect of TMO surfaces can result in an incorrect interpretation of their physics and inhibit their maturation into device technology. Soft x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) is a common technique for TMO studies, and different XAS acquisition modes can be used to measure different depth regimes in the sample. Here, we demonstrate a substantial disparity between the near-surface region and the “bulk” of the prototypical TMO SrVO3. By driving the system across two scenarios of orbital polarization, we illustrate how a common XAS surface-sensitive acquisition technique fails to detect the intrinsic orbital polarization. By stark contrast, a “bulk”-sensitive technique successfully captures this effect, elucidating the expected orbital occupation inversion. These results not only underscore the impact of the near-surface region on the correct interpretation of TMO fundamental physics, but further highlight the scale of surface inhomogeneity, a critical aspect of nanoscale functional devices.

2024: Patterning functional oxides: Some failures and solutions in fabricating a Hall bar
Abstract: Functional oxides exhibit diverse useful properties, opening attractive prospects for electronic, magnetic, and optoelectronic devices. However, the chemical instability of these oxides with some microfabrication processes, especially when dealing with thin films (<40 nm) or micrometer-scale lateral dimensions, can pose a considerable challenge. Here, we describe the fabrication process of a Hall bar device used as a test structure for thin functional oxide films. This process employs photolithography and dry etching, utilizing standard clean-room materials and methods. The device layout and fabrication process are described in detail, including conclusions and lessons gained from several failed attempts during process development. A key lesson is the advantage of employing an ultrathin protective layer to protect the oxide film surface. In addition, we encountered two additional fabrication challenges: photoresist hardening during dry etching and edge accumulation of photoresist during spin-coating. Effective solutions to these issues are described. We hope that our lessons and conclusions, not limited to functional oxides, will help to shorten the process development for other materials and devices.

2023: Magnetic Anisotropy and Its Structural Origins in Ru-Substituted Manganite Films
Abstract: Controlling magnetic anisotropy (MA) is important in a variety of applications including magnetic memories, spintronic sensors, and skyrmion-based data distribution. The perovskite manganite family provides a fertile playground for complex, intricate, and potentially useful structure-magnetism relations. Here we report on the MA that emerges in 10% Ru substituted $La_{0.7}Sr_{0.3}MnO_{3}$ (Ru-LSMO) films for which strong perpendicular magnetization and anisotropic in-plane magnetization are found. These moderately compressively strained films possess a rich microstructure, consisting of coherently strained phase which evolves into a one dimensional (1D) periodically-modulated structure above a critical thickness. We illustrate how 10% Ru substitution plays a crucial role behind the observed MA, and how the structural distortion and 1D periodic structural modulation produce the anisotropic in-plane magnetization. We highlight the practical significance of the observed MA, which could pave the way towards the realization of cutting-edge oxide-based room temperature spintronic memory devices.

2023: Bandwidth Control and Symmetry Breaking in a Mott‐Hubbard Correlated Metal
Abstract: In Mott materials strong electron correlation yields a spectrum of complex electronic structures. Recent synthesis advancements open realistic opportunities for harnessing Mott physics to design transformative devices. However, a major bottleneck in realizing such devices remains the lack of control over the electron correlation strength. This stems from the complexity of the electronic structure, which often veils the basic mechanisms underlying the correlation strength. This study presents control of the correlation strength by tuning the degree of orbital overlap using picometer‐scale lattice engineering. This study illustrates how bandwidth control and concurrent symmetry breaking can govern the electronic structure of a correlated SrVO3 model system. This study shows how tensile and compressive biaxial strain oppositely affect the SrVO3 in‐plane and out‐of‐plane orbital occupancy, resulting in the partial alleviation of the orbital degeneracy. The spectral weight redistribution under strain is derived and explained, which illustrates how high tensile strain drives the system toward a Mott insulating state. Implementation of such concepts can push correlated electron phenomena closer toward new solid‐state devices and circuits. These findings therefore pave the way for understanding and controlling electron correlation in a broad range of functional materials, driving this powerful resource for novel electronics closer toward practical realization.

2023: Tilted Magnetic Anisotropy with In‐Plane Broken Symmetry in Ru‐Substituted Manganite Films
Abstract: Controlling the magnetic anisotropy of materials is important in a variety of applications including magnetic memories, spintronic sensors, and skyrmion‐based devices. Ru‐substituted La0.7Sr0.3MnO3 (Ru‐LSMO) is an emerging material, showing tilted magnetic anisotropy (TMA) and possible nontrivial magnetic topologies. Here anisotropic in‐plane magnetization is reported in moderately compressed Ru‐LSMO films, coexisting with TMA. This combination is attractive for technological applications, such as spin‐orbit torque (SOT) based devices and other spintronic applications. A microstructural analysis of films of this material is presented, and Ru single ion anisotropy and strain‐induced structural mechanisms are found to be responsible for both the in‐plane anisotropy and the TMA. The manifestation of these properties in a correlated oxide with Curie temperature near room temperature highlights an attractive platform for technological realization of SOT and other spintronic devices. Illustrating the mechanisms behind these properties provides the necessary engineering space for harnessing these phenomena for practical devices.

2023: Universal material trends in extraordinary magnetoresistive devices
Abstract: Extraordinary magnetoresistance (EMR) is a geometric magnetoresistance emerging in hybrid systems typically comprising a high-mobility material and a metal. Due to a field-dependent redistribution of electrical currents in these devices, the electrical resistance at room temperature can increase by 107% when applying a magnetic field of 5 T. Although EMR holds considerable potential for realizing sensitive, all-electronic magnetometers, this potential is largely unmet. A key challenge is that the performance of EMR devices depends very sensitively on variations in a vast parameter space where changes in the device geometry and material properties produce widely different EMR performances. The challenge of navigating in the large parameter space is further amplified by the poor understanding of the interplay between the device geometry and material properties. By systematically varying the material parameters in four key EMR geometries using diffusive transport simulations, we here elucidate this interplay with the aim of finding universal guidelines for designing EMR devices. Common to all geometries, we find that the sensitivity scales inversely with the carrier density, while the MR reaches saturation at low carrier densities. Increasing the mobility beyond 20 000 cm2 Vs−1 is required to observe strong EMR effects at 1 T with the optimal magnetoresistance observed for mobilities between 100 000–500 000 cm2 Vs−1. An interface resistance below ρc=10−4 Ω cm2 between the constituent materials in the hybrid devices was also found to be a prerequisite for very high magnetoresistances in all geometries. By further simulating several high-mobility materials at room and cryogenic temperatures, we conclude that encapsulated graphene and InSb are amongst the most promising candidates for EMR devices showing high magnetoresistance exceeding 107% below 1 T at room temperature. This study paves the way for understanding how to realize EMR devices with record-high magnetoresistance and high sensitivity for detecting magnetic fields.

2023: The impact of the near-surface region on the interpretation of x-ray absorption spectroscopy
Abstract: Transition metal oxides (TMOs) exhibit a broad spectrum of electronic, magnetic, and optical properties, making them intriguing materials for various technological applications. Soft x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) is widely used to study TMOs, shedding light on their chemical state, electronic structure, orbital polarization, element-specific magnetism, and more. Different XAS acquisition modes feature different information depth regimes in the sample. Here, we employ two XAS acquisition modes, having surface-sensitive versus bulk probing depths, on the prototypical TMO SrVO3. We illustrate and elucidate a strong apparent discrepancy between the different modes, emphasizing the impact of the near-surface region on the interpretation of XAS data. These findings highlight the importance of the acquisition mode selection in XAS analysis. Moreover, the results highlight the role of the near-surface region not only in the characterization of TMOs, but also in the design of future nanoscale oxide electronics.

2023: Scalable and highly tunable conductive oxide interfaces
Abstract: Conducting oxide interfaces have attracted considerable attention, motivated by both fundamental science and potential for oxide electronic devices. An important gap for maturing such device technology is scalability and routes to control the electronic properties, which can narrow the device engineering space. Here, we demonstrate and explain the mechanisms of highly tunable conductive oxide interfaces. We synthesized amorphous–crystalline Al2O3/SrTiO3 interfaces using the scalable and industry-compatible atomic layer deposition (ALD) technique. An NH3 plasma pretreatment is employed in the ALD chamber, and its duration is used as a tuning parameter for the electrical properties, where a span of three orders of magnitude in the sheet resistance is observed at room temperature. For the most conductive sample, our results are comparable to the highest carrier density values reported for all-crystalline oxide interfaces prepared with state-of-the-art epitaxial growth techniques, such as pulsed laser deposition. We pinpoint the origin of conductivity to oxygen vacancies caused by the SrTiO3 reduction by the NH3 plasma pretreatment. These results present a simple, scalable, and industry-compatible route for realizing conductive oxide interfaces, with a broad parameter space, offering a versatile and flexible toolkit for oxide device engineering.

2023: Research lays groundwork for future high-performance alternatives to silicon in microelectronics
Abstract: None

2022: Wear-out and breakdown of Ta2O5/Nb:SrTiO3 stacks
Abstract: None

2022: A Straightforward Method for Measuring the Elastic and Inelastic Mean Free Paths for Scattering of Fast Electrons in Technologically Important Thin-Film Oxides
Abstract: 1. Department of Materials Science and Engineering, The Iby and Aladar Fleischman Faculty of Engineering, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel. 2. Andrew and Erna Viterbi Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel. 3. Tel Aviv University Center for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel. * Corresponding author: akohn@tauex.tau.ac.il

2022: Elastic and inelastic mean free paths for scattering of fast electrons in thin-film oxides.
Abstract: None

2022: Ferroelectric Modulation of Surface Electronic States in BaTiO3 for Enhanced Hydrogen Evolution Activity.
Abstract: Ferroelectric nanomaterials offer the promise of switchable electronic properties at the surface, with implications for photo- and electrocatalysis. Studies to date on the effect of ferroelectric surfaces in electrocatalysis have been primarily limited to nanoparticle systems where complex interfaces arise. Here, we use MBE-grown epitaxial BaTiO3 thin films with atomically sharp interfaces as model surfaces to demonstrate the effect of ferroelectric polarization on the electronic structure, intermediate binding energy, and electrochemical activity toward the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Surface spectroscopy and ab initio DFT+U calculations of the well-defined (001) surfaces indicate that an upward polarized surface reduces the work function relative to downward polarization and leads to a smaller HER barrier, in agreement with the higher activity observed experimentally. Employing ferroelectric polarization to create multiple adsorbate interactions over a single electrocatalytic surface, as demonstrated in this work, may offer new opportunities for nanoscale catalysis design beyond traditional descriptors.

2022: Thickness and temperature dependence of the atomic-scale structure of SrRuO3 thin films
Abstract: The temperature-dependent layer-resolved structure of 3 to 44 unit cell thick SrRuO3 (SRO) films grown on Nb-doped SrTiO3 substrates is investigated using a combination of high-resolution synchrotron x-ray diffraction and high-resolution electron microscopy to understand the role that structural distortions play in suppressing ferromagnetism in ultra-thin SRO films. The oxygen octahedral tilts and rotations and Sr displacements characteristic of the bulk orthorhombic phase are found to be strongly dependent on temperature, the film thickness, and the distance away from the film–substrate interface. For thicknesses, t, above the critical thickness for ferromagnetism ( t > 3 uc), the orthorhombic distortions decrease with increasing temperature above T C. Below T C, the structure of the films remains constant due to the magneto-structural coupling observed in bulk SRO. The orthorhombic distortions are found to be suppressed in the 2–3 interfacial layers due to structural coupling with the SrTiO3 substrate and correlate with the critical thickness for ferromagnetism in uncapped SRO films.

2022: Scalable Al2O3–TiO2 Conductive Oxide Interfaces as Defect Reservoirs for Resistive Switching Devices
Abstract: Resistive switching devices herald a transformative technology for memory and computation, offering considerable advantages in performance and energy efficiency. Here, a simple and scalable material system of conductive oxide interfaces is employed, and their unique properties are leveraged for a new type of resistive switching device. An Al2O3–TiO2‐based valence‐change resistive switching device, where the conductive oxide interface serves both as the bottom electrode and as a reservoir of defects for switching, is demonstrated. The amorphous–polycrystalline Al2O3–TiO2 conductive interface is obtained following the technological path of simplifying the fabrication of the 2D electron gases (2DEGs), making them scalable for practical mass integration. Physical analysis of the device chemistry and microstructure with comprehensive electrical analysis of its switching behavior and performance is combined. The origin of the resistive switching is pinpointed to the conductive oxide interface, which serves both as the bottom electrode and as a reservoir of oxygen vacancies. The latter plays a key role in valence‐change resistive switching devices. The new device, based on scalable and complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS)‐technology‐compatible fabrication processes, opens new design spaces toward increased tunability and simplification of the device selection challenge.

