Recent papers for Kvatinsky Shahar:

2025: A Highly Reliable Dual-Mode RRAM PUF With Key Concealment Scheme
Abstract: None

2025: IMPACT: In-Memory ComPuting Architecture based on Y-FlAsh Technology for Coalesced Tsetlin machine inference
Abstract: The increasing demand for processing large volumes of data for machine learning (ML) models has pushed data bandwidth requirements beyond the capability of traditional von Neumann architecture. In-memory computing (IMC) has recently emerged as a promising solution to address this gap by enabling distributed data storage and processing at the micro-architectural level, significantly reducing both latency and energy. In this article, we present In-Memory comPuting architecture based on Y-FlAsh technology for Coalesced Tsetlin machine inference (IMPACT), underpinned on a cutting-edge memory device, Y-Flash, fabricated on a 180 nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) process. Y-Flash devices have recently been demonstrated for digital and analogue memory applications; they offer high yield, non-volatility and low power consumption. IMPACT leverages the Y-Flash array to implement the inference of a novel ML algorithm: coalesced Tsetlin machine (CoTM) based on propositional logic. CoTM utilizes Tsetlin automata (TA) to create Boolean feature selections stochastically across parallel clauses. IMPACT is organized into two computational crossbars for storing the TA and weights. Through validation on the MNIST dataset, IMPACT achieved 96.3% accuracy. IMPACT demonstrated improvements in energy efficiency, e.g. factors of 2.23 over CNN-based ReRAM, 2.46 over neuromorphic using NOR-Flash and 2.06 over DNN-based phase-change memory (PCM), suited for modern ML inference applications. This article is part of the theme issue ‘Emerging technologies for future secure computing platforms’.

2025: Asymmetric and Symmetric Single-Pole Double-Throw With Improved Power Handling Using Indirectly Heated Phase-Change Switches
Abstract: Four-terminal indirectly heated phase-change switches (IPCSs) have emerged as excellent candidates for radio-frequency integrated circuit (RFIC) applications due to their state-of-the-art cutoff frequency, nonvolatility, CMOS compatibility, and exceptional linearity. However, IPCS performance is limited by relatively low-power handling capabilities in the off-state, limited by the Ovonic threshold switching (OTS) phenomenon. In this article, we propose the use of a quad configuration consisting of two series-connected IPCS in parallel with another two series-connected IPCS. This series connection increases the effective threshold voltage, thereby enhancing power handling compared to a single device. We experimentally demonstrate the implementation of this quad configuration in asymmetric and symmetric single-pole double-throw (SPDT) switches. Fabricated using an in-house process, these designs achieve an insertion loss (IL) below 0.8 dB and isolation higher than 17 dB within the dc-15 GHz frequency band. Furthermore, we explore techniques, such as reducing the probing pads and series-shunt configuration, to boost isolation beyond 30 dB. Thanks to the quad configuration, the threshold voltage increases from 5 to 13.5 V, predicatively enabling power handling above 35 dBm.

2024: Roadmap to Neuromorphic Computing with Emerging Technologies
Abstract: The roadmap is organized into several thematic sections, outlining current computing challenges, discussing the neuromorphic computing approach, analyzing mature and currently utilized technologies, providing an overview of emerging technologies, addressing material challenges, exploring novel computing concepts, and finally examining the maturity level of emerging technologies while determining the next essential steps for their advancement.

2024: Realization of Memristor Ratioed Logic with HfO2-Based Resistive RAM
Abstract: Emerging nonvolatile memristive memory technologies, such as resistive RAM, offer the potential to perform logic gate operations. One prominent technique is Memristor Ratioed Logic (MRL), which belongs to the non-stateful CMOS counterpart logic group. MRL can execute AND and OR functions using two memristors as voltage dividers. Since both input and output instances are represented as voltages, MRL gates can be seamlessly integrated with CMOS logic, allowing for the construction of complete logic circuits using CMOS inverters. This paper experimentally demonstrates MRL gates based on Hf02 memristors within a crossbar array. We validate the functionality of these gates and identify their limitations, including the nonlinearity, the lack of signal restoration, and certain reliability issues. Additionally, we introduce a memristor initialization mechanism that simplifies the switching process, enhancing the overall performance and reliability of MRL gates.

2024: V-VTEAM: A Compact Behavioral Model for Volatile Memristors
Abstract: Volatile memristors have recently gained popularity as promising devices for neuromorphic circuits, capable of mimicking the leaky function of neurons and offering advantages over capacitor-based circuits in terms of power dissipation and area. Additionally, volatile memristors are useful as selector devices and for hardware security circuits such as physical unclonable functions. To facilitate the design and simulation of circuits, a compact behavioral model is essential. This paper proposes V-VTEAM, a compact, simple, general, and flexible behavioral model for volatile memristors, inspired by the VTEAM nonvolatile memristor model and developed in MATLAB11The MATLAB code can be found in [12].. The validity of the model is demonstrated by fitting it to an ion drift/diffusion-based Ag/SiOx/C/W volatile memristor, achieving a relative root mean error square of 4.5%.

2024: Accelerating DNA Read Mapping with Digital Processing-in-Memory
Abstract: Genome analysis has revolutionized fields such as personalized medicine and forensics. Modern sequencing machines generate vast amounts of fragmented strings of genome data called reads. The alignment of these reads into a complete DNA sequence of an organism (the read mapping process) requires extensive data transfer between processing units and memory, leading to execution bottlenecks. Prior studies have primarily focused on accelerating specific stages of the read-mapping task. Conversely, this paper introduces a holistic framework called DART-PIM that accelerates the entire read-mapping process. DART-PIM facilitates digital processing-in-memory (PIM) for an end-to-end acceleration of the entire read-mapping process, from indexing using a unique data organization schema to filtering and read alignment with an optimized Wagner Fischer algorithm. A comprehensive performance evaluation with real genomic data shows that DART-PIM achieves a 5.7x and 257x improvement in throughput and a 92x and 27x energy efficiency enhancement compared to state-of-the-art GPU and PIM implementations, respectively.

2024: IMPACT:InMemory ComPuting Architecture Based on Y-FlAsh Technology for Coalesced Tsetlin Machine Inference
Abstract: The increasing demand for processing large volumes of data for machine learning models has pushed data bandwidth requirements beyond the capability of traditional von Neumann architecture. In-memory computing (IMC) has recently emerged as a promising solution to address this gap by enabling distributed data storage and processing at the micro-architectural level, significantly reducing both latency and energy. In this paper, we present the IMPACT: InMemory ComPuting Architecture Based on Y-FlAsh Technology for Coalesced Tsetlin Machine Inference, underpinned on a cutting-edge memory device, Y-Flash, fabricated on a 180 nm CMOS process. Y-Flash devices have recently been demonstrated for digital and analog memory applications, offering high yield, non-volatility, and low power consumption. The IMPACT leverages the Y-Flash array to implement the inference of a novel machine learning algorithm: coalesced Tsetlin machine (CoTM) based on propositional logic. CoTM utilizes Tsetlin automata (TA) to create Boolean feature selections stochastically across parallel clauses. The IMPACT is organized into two computational crossbars for storing the TA and weights. Through validation on the MNIST dataset, IMPACT achieved 96.3% accuracy. The IMPACT demonstrated improvements in energy efficiency, e.g., 2.23X over CNN-based ReRAM, 2.46X over Neuromorphic using NOR-Flash, and 2.06X over DNN-based PCM, suited for modern ML inference applications.

2024: Bitwise Logic Using Phase Change Memory Devices Based on the Pinatubo Architecture
Abstract: This paper experimentally demonstrates a near-crossbar memory logic technique called Pinatubo. Pinatubo, an acronym for Processing In Non-volatile memory ArchiTecture for bUlk Bitwise Operations, facilitates the concurrent activation of two or more rows, enabling bitwise operations such as OR, AND, XOR, and NOT on the activated rows. We implement Pinatubo using phase change memory (PCM) and compare our experimental results with the simulated data from the original Pinatubo study. Our findings highlight a significant four-orders of magnitude difference between resistance states, suggesting the robustness of the Pinatubo architecture with PCM technology.

2024: Transimpedance Amplifier with Automatic Gain Control Based on Memristors for Optical Signal Acquisition
Abstract: Transimpedance amplifiers (TIA) play a crucial role in various electronic systems, especially in optical signal acquisition. However, their performance is often hampered by saturation issues due to high input currents, leading to prolonged recovery times. This paper addresses this challenge by introducing a novel approach utilizing a memristive automatic gain control (AGC) to adjust the TIA's gain and enhance its dynamic range. We replace the typical feedback resistor of a TIA with a valence-change mechanism (VCM) memristor. This substitution enables the TIA to adapt to a broader range of input signals, leveraging the substantial OFF/ON resistance ratio of the memristor. This paper also presents the reading and resetting sub-circuits essential for monitoring and controling the memristor's state. The proposed circuit is evaluated through SPICE simulations. Furthermore, we extend our evaluation to practical testing using a printed circuit board (PCB) integrating the TIA and memristor. We show a remarkable 40 dB increase in the dynamic range of our TIA memristor circuit compared to traditional resistor-based TIAs.

2024: Low-power Rapid Planar Superconducting Logic Devices
Abstract: The rapid-pace growing demand for high-performance computation and big-data manipulation entails substantial increase in global power consumption, and challenging thermal management. Thus, there is a need in allocating competitive alternatives for complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technologies. Superconducting platforms, such as rapid single flux quantum (RSFQ) lack electric resistance and excel in power efficiency and time performance. However, traditional RSFQs require 3D geometry for their Josephson junctions (JJs) imposing a large footprint, and hence preventing device miniaturization and increasing processing time. Here, we demonstrate that RSFQ logic circuits of planar geometry with weak-link bridges are scalable, relatively easy to process and are CMOS-compatible on a Si chip. Universal logic gates, as well as combinational arithmetic circuiting that are based on these devices are demonstrated. The power consumption and processing time of these logic circuits were as low as 0.8 nW and 13 ps, an order of magnitude improvement with respect to the equivalent traditional-RSFQ logic circuits and two orders of magnitude with respect to CMOS. The competitive performance of planar RSFQ logic circuits renders them for promising CMOS substitutes, especially in the supercomputational realm.

2024: Assessing the Performance of Stateful Logic in 1-Selector-1-RRAM Crossbar Arrays
Abstract: Resistive Random Access Memory (RRAM) crossbar arrays are an attractive memory structure for emerging nonvolatile memory due to their high density and excellent scalability. Their ability to perform logic operations using RRAM devices makes them a critical component in non-von Neumann processing-in-memory architectures. Passive RRAM crossbar arrays (1-RRAM or 1R), however, suffer from a major issue of sneak path currents, leading to a lower readout margin and increasing write failures. To address this challenge, active RRAM arrays have been proposed, which incorporate a selector device in each memory cell (termed 1-selector-1-RRAM or 1S1R). The selector eliminates currents from unselected cells and therefore effectively mitigates the sneak path phenomenon. Yet, there is a need for a comprehensive analysis of 1S1R arrays, particularly concerning in-memory computation. In this paper, we introduce a 1S1R model tailored to a VO2-based selector and TiN/TiOx/HfOx/Pt RRAM device. We also present simulations of 1S1R arrays, incorporating all parasitic parameters, across a range of array sizes from 4 × 4 to 512 × 512. We evaluate the performance of Memristor-Aided Logic (MAGIC) gates in terms of switching delay, power consumption, and readout margin, and provide a comparative evaluation with passive 1R arrays.

2024: A Concealable RRAM Physical Unclonable Function Compatible with In-Memory Computing
Abstract: Resistive random access memory (RRAM) has been widely used in physical unclonable function (PUF) design due to its low power consumption, fast read/write speed, and significant intrinsic randomness. However, existing RRAM PUFs cannot overcome the cycle-to-cycle (C2C) variations of RRAM, leading to poor reproducibility of PUF keys across cycles. Most prior designs directly store PUF keys in RRAMs, increasing vulnerability to attacks. In this paper, we propose a concealable RRAM PUF based on an RRAM crossbar array, utilizing the differential resistive switching characteristics of two RRAMs to generate keys. By enabling the reproducibility of PUF keys across cycles, a concealment scheme is proposed to prevent the exposure of PUF keys, thus enhancing the security of the RRAM PUF. Through post-processing operations, the proposed PUF exhibits high reliability over ±10% VDD and a wide temperature range from 248K to 373K. Furthermore, this RRAM PUF is compatible with in-memory computing (IMC), and they can be implemented using the same RRAM crossbar array.

2023: ClaPIM: Scalable Sequence Classification Using Processing-in-Memory
Abstract: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence classification is a fundamental task in computational biology with vast implications for applications such as disease prevention and drug design. Therefore, fast high-quality sequence classifiers are significantly important. This article introduces ClaPIM, a scalable DNA sequence classification architecture based on the emerging concept of hybrid in-crossbar and near-crossbar memristive processing-in-memory (PIM). We enable efficient and high-quality classification by uniting the filter and search stages within a single algorithm. Specifically, we propose a custom filtering technique that drastically narrows the search space and a search approach that facilitates approximate string matching through a distance function. ClaPIM is the first PIM architecture for scalable approximate string matching that benefits from the high density of memristive crossbar arrays and the massive computational parallelism of PIM. Compared with Kraken2, a state-of-the-art software classifier, ClaPIM provides significantly higher classification quality (up to <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$20 \times $ </tex-math></inline-formula> improvement in F1 score) and also demonstrates a <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$1.8 \times $ </tex-math></inline-formula> throughput improvement. Compared with edit distance tolerant approximate matching (EDAM), a recently proposed static random-access memory (SRAM)-based accelerator that is restricted to small datasets, we observe both a <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$30.4 \times $ </tex-math></inline-formula> improvement in normalized throughput per area and a 7% increase in classification precision.

2023: Accelerating Relational Database Analytical Processing with Bulk-Bitwise Processing-in-Memory
Abstract: Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) for relational databases is a business decision support application. The application receives queries about the business database, usually requesting to summarize many database records, and produces few results. Existing OLAP requires transferring a large amount of data between the memory and the CPU, having a few operations per datum, and producing a small output. Hence, OLAP is a good candidate for processing-in-memory (PIM), where computation is performed where the data is stored, thus accelerating applications by reducing data movement between the memory and CPU. In particular, bulk-bitwise PIM, where the memory array is a bitvector processing unit, seems a good match for OLAP. With the extensive inherent parallelism and minimal data movement of bulk-bitwise PIM, OLAP applications can process the entire database in parallel in memory, transferring only the results to the CPU. This paper shows a full stack adaptation of a bulk-bitwise PIM, from compiling SQL to hardware implementation, for supporting OLAP applications. Evaluating the Star Schema Benchmark (SSB), bulk-bitwise PIM achieves a 4.65× speedup over Monet-DB, a standard database system.

2023: PyPIM: Integrating Digital Processing-in-Memory from Microarchitectural Design to Python Tensors
Abstract: Digital processing-in-memory (PIM) architectures mitigate the memory wall problem by facilitating parallel bitwise operations directly within the memory. Recent works have demonstrated their algorithmic potential for accelerating data-intensive applications; however, there remains a significant gap in the programming model and microarchitectural design. This is further exacerbated by aspects unique to memristive PIM such as partitions and operations across both directions of the memory array. To address this gap, this paper provides an end-to-end architectural integration of digital memristive PIM from a high-level Python library for tensor operations (similar to NumPy and PyTorch) to the low-level microarchitectural design. We begin by proposing an efficient microarchitecture and instruction set architecture (ISA) that bridge the gap between the low-level control periphery and an abstraction of PIM parallelism. We subsequently propose a PIM development library that converts high-level Python to ISA instructions and a PIM driver that translates ISA instructions into PIM micro-operations. We evaluate PyPIM via a cycle-accurate simulator on a wide variety of benchmarks that both demonstrate the versatility of the Python library and the performance compared to theoretical PIM bounds. Overall, PyPIM drastically simplifies the development of PIM applications and enables the conversion of existing tensor-oriented Python programs to PIM with ease.

2023: FourierPIM: High-Throughput In-Memory Fast Fourier Transform and Polynomial Multiplication
Abstract: None

2023: Enabling Relational Database Analytical Processing in Bulk-Bitwise Processing-In-Memory
Abstract: Bulk-bitwise processing-in-memory (PIM), an emerging computational paradigm utilizing memory arrays as computational units, has been shown to benefit database applications. This paper demonstrates how GROUP-BY and JOIN, database operations not supported by previous works, can be performed efficiently in bulk-bitwise PIM for relational database analytical processing. We extend the gem5 simulator and evaluated our hardware modifications on the Star Schema Benchmark. We show that compared to previous works, our modifications improve (on average) execution time by 1.83×, energy by 4.31×, and the system’s lifetime by 3.21×. We also achieved a speedup of 4.65× over MonetDB, a modern state-of-the-art in-memory database.

2023: Experimental Demonstration of Non-Stateful In-Memory Logic With 1T1R OxRAM Valence Change Mechanism Memristors
Abstract: Processing-in-memory (PIM) is attractive to overcome the limitations of modern computing systems. Numerous PIM systems exist, varying by the technologies and logic techniques used. Successful operation of specific logic functions is crucial for effective processing-in-memory. Memristive non-stateful logic techniques are compatible with CMOS logic and can be integrated into a 1T1R memory array, similar to commercial RRAM products. This brief analyzes and demonstrates two non-stateful logic techniques: 1T1R logic and scouting logic. As a first step, the used 1T1R SiOx valence change mechanism memristors are characterized in reference to their feasibility to perform logic functions. Various logical functions of the two logic techniques are experimentally demonstrated, showing correct functionality in all cases. Following the results, the challenges and limitations of the RRAM characteristics and 1T1R configuration for the application in logical functions are discussed.

2023: A full spectrum of computing-in-memory technologies
Abstract: None

