Recent papers for Leviatan Yehuda:

2023: Design of Irregular Embedded Antenna Arrays for Shaped-Beam Radiation Using Reciprocity and Sparse Optimization
Abstract: In this article, the sparse optimization based methodology for designing irregular arrays of antenna radiating in free space for various beam pattern objectives is extended to the case of realistic antennas embedded in an arbitrary hosting structure. To reduce the computational complexity involved in this extension, which lies in the need to numerically calculate the far-fields of the antennas for many possible placements while accounting for the effect of the embedding structure, we resort to the reciprocity theorem. Once the far-fields have been computed, we can proceed and employ any sparse optimizer to design the array. To demonstrate this approach, we apply it to the design of an electrically short dipole array embedded in a dielectric substrate above a finite ground plane for various beam pattern objectives. The sparse optimization is shown to yield arrays with more desirable beam patterns (better in terms of least squares error) than achieved by commonly used uniformly spaced planar arrays.

2020: Quality factor and absorption bandwidth of electrically small lossy structures
Abstract: A new quality factor (Q abs) characterising power absorption by electrically small structures ranging from antennas to lossy objects is defined. In analogy to the radiation quality factor (Q rad), which is evaluated using the antenna radiated fields in transmitting mode, Q abs is evaluated using the fields scattered by the absorbing structure. Similar to the known relationship between the antenna matching bandwidth (B match) and Q rad, it is rigorously shown that for an electrically small lossless receiving antenna Q abs is inversely proportional to the absorption bandwidth (B abs) of the antenna. Based on a circuit model, it is then conjectured that the same B abs–Q abs relation is also valid in the cases of electrically small lossy antennas and objects that do not have terminals. Numerical examples are shown to demonstrate the validity of the presented B abs–Q abs relation.

2019: Perfect Absorption by an Array of Lossy Dipoles Located Close to a Ground Plane
Abstract: This paper presents a thin absorbing structure comprising an array of finitely conductive terminal-loaded dipoles spaced about half a wavelength apart and located above a ground plane. We show that if the antennas are terminated with proper load impedance, instead of a conjugate-matched one, a perfect absorption can be attained even when the array lies close to the ground plane. We also identify a threshold height below which the absorption efficiency rapidly drops and perfect absorption cannot be realized. The idea is illustrated via a concrete example of array of dipoles printed with conductive ink technology on a Kapton HN flexible film backed by a rigid Rogers 4350B substrate. The array is designed for perfect absorption at 3.45 GHz when it is located one-tenth of a wavelength above the ground plane. Good agreement between simulation and measurement results is demonstrated.

2019: Channel Capacity of Magnetic Communication in a General Medium Incorporating Full-Wave Analysis and High-Frequency Effects
Abstract: Magnetic communication systems are most often analyzed assuming magnetoquasistatic (MQS) conditions, which neglect full-field terms and high-frequency (HF) effects in the transmitting and receiving coils. Such approximations may lead to nonoptimal designs in terms of operating frequency, size, and coil orientation. This paper presents an optimal design approach for maximizing the channel capacity, using both MQS analysis and full-wave (FW) analysis while incorporating HF effects, such as skin and proximity effects, radiation losses, and the self-resonance of coils. For a given medium and required transmission distance, the optimal operating frequency is such, for which the receiver is located in the radiative near field (NF) and not in the reactive NF. The optimal power allocation and the resulting channel capacity were obtained using a “water-filling” algorithm. The HF effects reduced the signal-to-noise ratio and limited the operating frequency and the coil size. This is especially true for short-distance transmission through low-loss media, where the optimal signal frequency is relatively high. In addition, FW analysis significantly improved potential data rates compared to the typical MQS approach. This improvement was achieved due to a higher operating frequency and sometimes a change of mutual orientation from coaxial to parallel. Electromagnetic simulations validated the primary effects presented here.

2018: Unidirectional H‐shaped slot antenna backed by a shallow cylindrical cavity for the 5.8 GHz ISM band
Abstract: A compact slot antenna backed by a shallow cylindrical cavity for high‐gain unidirectional radiation in the 5.8 GHz ISM is presented. The antenna has a 96% efficiency, 8 dBi gain, 12 dB front‐to‐back ratio, and a −10 dB impedance bandwidth of 7.5%. A prototype of the antenna was fabricated and measured and the measurement results were verified against the simulated ones.

2018: On matching lossy antennas for maximum power absorption
Abstract: The impedance matching required for maximum absorption by a stand-alone lossy dipole and by an infinite array of lossy dipoles located in front of a ground plane is analyzed. In the case of the stand-alone terminal-loaded lossy dipole, we find an approximate analytical expression for the load impedance that maximizes the sum of the powers absorbed by the load and by the lossy material of which the dipole is made. Evidently, this load is different from the conjugate-matched load, which is required to maximize the load power alone. In the case of the infinite array of terminal-loaded lossy dipoles above a ground plane, we show that if the antennas are terminated with the proper load impedance, one can attain perfect absorption even when the array lies very close to the ground plane. In this case, we also identify the minimum height below which perfect absorption cannot be realized and the absorption efficiency rapidly drops.

2018: On Methods Employing Auxiliary Sources for 2-D Electromagnetic Scattering by Noncircular Shapes
Abstract: Methods employing auxiliary sources are applied to electromagnetic scattering problems by 2-D noncircular scatterers. Specific cases are considered for which the singularities of the analytic continuation of the scattered field into the interior of the scatterer can be analytically determined. Then, it is shown that the amplitudes (currents) of the sources diverge and oscillate when the auxiliary curve does not enclose these singularities. Still, the electric fields computed by means of the divergent and oscillatory currents are convergent and correct. The correctness of the computed fields is validated by comparison with the exact solutions (where possible) as well as with the numerical solutions computed via commercial field simulation software.

2017: A minimally invasive microwave ablation antenna
Abstract: Microwave ablation (MWA) is a promising technique for the treatment of cancer in various body organs such as liver, kidneys, lungs, and bones. This is especially suitable in cases of patients that are not viable candidates for surgical resection. This paper proposes a new approach to reducing the diameter of the microwave ablation antenna. Instead of sticking to antennas whose input impedance matches that of a standard 50 Ω coaxial cable feed-line, we propose to make the antenna as thin as enabled by common manufacturing technology, and match its input impedance, which is much lower than 50 Ω, to the feed-line outside of the patient body. In this work a balun-less, extremely thin antenna is designed for liver tumor treatment at 10 GHz. Simulations of the antenna reveal nearly spherical ablation zone.

2017: On methods employing auxiliary sources for non-circular scattering problems
Abstract: When methods employing auxiliary sources are applied to problems involving scatterers that are circular, it has been shown that convergent and correct fields are obtained by divergent and oscillatory amplitudes (currents) of the sources. In this work, we present some preliminary numerical results, which show that the above conclusions remain valid for non-circular scattering cases.

2017: A Source-Model Technique for Analysis of Waveguiding Across an Array of Arbitrary Smooth Cylinders Partially Buried in a Penetrable Substrate
Abstract: A computational technique for modal analysis of an array of penetrable cylinders with smooth arbitrary cross section is described. The cylinders are partially buried between two penetrable half-space media, as may occur in fabricated device. Our suggested method is a rigorous full-wave frequency-domain source-model technique. The corner-like intersections of the cylinders with the substrate and superstrate are addressed with particular care, by intricately locating properly modulated fictitious sources, so that the rapid spatial variations of the fields can be effectively modeled. The spurious-free modal analysis scheme is sped up with an efficient serial mode-tracking scheme, which is based on the physical perturbation theory. The respective software tool is robust to the choice of materials, geometric parameters, and wavelength. Sample results are presented for circular and triangle-like cylinders. We demonstrate a red shift of the cut-off frequency of these potential waveguides as they are more deeply buried in a high refractive index medium, yet in general, the eigenmodes change rapidly but not necessarily monotonously as a function of the burial depth.

2017: Evaluation of blackbody radiation emitted by arbitrarily shaped bodies using the source model technique.
Abstract: Planck's famous blackbody radiation law was derived under the assumption that the dimensions of the radiating body are significantly larger than the radiated wavelengths. What is unique about Planck's formula is the fact that it is independent of the exact loss mechanism and the geometry. Therefore, for a long period of time, it was regarded as a fundamental property of all materials. Deviations from its predictions were attributed to imperfections and referred to as the emissivity of the specific body, a quantity which was always assumed to be smaller than unity. Recent studies showed that the emission spectrum is affected by the geometry of the body and in fact, in a limited frequency range, the emitted spectrum may exceed Planck's prediction provided the typical size of the body is of the same order of magnitude as the emitted wavelength. For the investigation of the blackbody radiation from an arbitrarily shaped body, we developed a code which incorporates the fluctuation-dissipation theorem (FDT) and the source model technique (SMT). The former determines the correlation between the quasi-microscopic current densities in the body and the latter is used to solve the electromagnetic problem numerically. In this study we present the essence of combining the two concepts. We verify the validity of our code by comparing its results obtained for the case of a sphere against analytic results and discuss how the accuracy of the solution is assessed in the general case. Finally, we illustrate several configurations in which the emitted spectrum exceeds Planck's prediction as well as cases in which the geometrical resonances of the body are revealed.

2017: FMM-Accelerated Source-Model Technique for Many-Scatterer Problems
Abstract: Motivated by the lack of scalability of the source-model technique (SMT) to many-scatterer problems, a new SMT-based method for 3-D many-scatterer problems is developed. The large time complexity of the SMT is reduced by deriving an implicit compact representation of the scattering problem via a fast multipole formulation, which divides the interactions into far and near ones while grouping and approximating the far interactions. This results in significant acceleration of classical SMT, which is demonstrated in a variety of 3-D many-body scattering problems. The improvement is notable already at the minimal number of unknowns necessary, and grows with the size of the problem.

2017: On Maximum Absorption by Lossy Finite-Length Dipole Antennas
Abstract: Approximate analytical expression is presented for calculating the current flowing along a lossy finite-length dipole antenna illuminated by an obliquely incident plane wave. This current is used to evaluate the total power absorbed, both by the lumped load connected across the antenna terminals and by the lossy material of which the antenna structure is made. An approximate value of the load impedance that maximizes the total absorbed power is then derived. The results are compared against results obtained using a method of moments solution and good agreement is found.

2016: Analysis and Optimization of Terahertz Bolometer Antennas
Abstract: Bolometer antennas are required to have not only a large gain-bandwidth product but also a fast heating rate suitable for video rate operation. However, while the gain-bandwidth product of an antenna increases with the fraction of the antenna bulk volume occupied by its enclosing sphere, its heating rate decreases. In this paper, we show that for a typical heating rate requirement, wire antennas such as dipole and bow-tie antennas are preferable over planar antennas such as triangular and pentagonal antennas. More complex bent-wire antenna geometries achieved by a genetic algorithm are shown to yield better performance.

2016: 23:1 Bandwidth ratio quasi-lumped component balun on a multilayer organic substrate
Abstract: Author(s): Pham, BL; Ta, HH; Pham, AV; Leoni, RE; Leviatan, Y | Abstract: © The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2016. In this study, the authors present the design and development of a novel ultra-wideband coupled-line balun on a multilayer liquid crystal polymer substrate. The balun is designed using a quarter wavelength (λ/4) asymmetric broadside coupled line. The defected ground structure and a lumped phase compensation circuit are developed to achieve wide bandwidth performance for the balun. The balun has a measured bandwidth ratio of 23:1, from 80 to 1860 MHz. Within the operating bandwidth, the experimental results demonstrate that the balun achieves an input return loss of better than 10 dB, an insertion loss of better than 1 dB, an amplitude imbalance of better than ±0.4 dB and a phase imbalance of better than ±10°. The size of the balun is 40.64 mm × 40.64 mm or 0.22 λg × 0.22 λg, where λg is the guided wavelength at the centre frequency of 970 MHz.

2016: Analytical model for absorption by lossy finite-length dipole antennas
Abstract: Approximate analytical expression is presented for calculating the current flowing along a lossy finite-length dipole antenna illuminated by an obliquely-incident plane wave. This current is used to evaluate the total power absorbed, both by the lumped load connected across the antenna terminals and by the lossy material of which the antenna structure is made. An approximate value for the load impedance that maximizes the total absorbed power is then determined. The results are compared against results obtained using a Method of Moments (MoM) solution, and good agreement is found.

2016: Wideband columnar slot antenna
Abstract: A wideband columnar antenna featuring a radiating slot cut around the outside circumference of a rectangular waveguide is presented. The antenna operates effectively in the frequency band of 1.51–4.75 GHz. The antenna also exhibits a reasonably good omnidirectional pattern in the horizontal plane, with predominantly vertical polarization. The antenna is suitable for use with access points in wireless networks. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Microwave Opt Technol Lett 58:2384–2387, 2016

2016: On the matching characteristics of a rectangular slot located near the edge of a finite-size ground plane
Abstract: We study the matching characteristics of a rectangular slot located in the farthest upper part of a ground plane. First, we investigate the effect of geometrical parameters including the length and width of the slot, the ground plane height, and feed point position on the input impedance. In turn, we consider the matching between the slot and a feed and examine impedance-matched frequencies and bandwidths. An approximate closed-form expression for the impedance-matched wavelength of the slot in terms of its length, width, and feed-point position is given. The results can aid in the design of application-specific slot antennas for handheld devices.

2016: A Source-Model Technique for Analysis of Scattering by a Periodic Array of Penetrable Cylinders Partially Buried in a Penetrable Substrate
Abstract: A computational technique for analysis of scattering by an array of penetrable cylinders with smooth arbitrary cross section is described, for cylinders that are partially buried in a penetrable half-space substrate. In fabricated devices, cylinders may be partially buried due to side effects of the fabrication process, or anchored intentionally for some applications. Our suggested method is a rigorous full-wave frequency-domain source-model technique. The cornerlike intersections of the cylinders with the substrate and superstrate cause computational difficulty, owing to rapid spatial variations of the fields in their vicinity. They are addressed with particular care, by intricately locating properly modulated fictitious sources using a novel algorithm. We show that expanding the scattered fields with the fields of these sources satisfies all boundary conditions and energy conservation requirements within very low error thresholds. The respective software tool is robust to the choice of materials, geometric parameters, and incident excitation. Sample results are presented for circular and trianglelike cylinders. These examples demonstrate the importance of precise geometric modeling for analyzing partially buried arrays. For instance, as a larger portion of the array is buried, quantities such as scattered and dissipated power change rapidly but not necessarily monotonously as a function of the burial depth.

2015: Study of a thin applicator for Microwave Ablation of liver malignant tumor
Abstract: Microwave Ablation (MWA) is a minimally invasive method for treatment of malignant tumors. This paper studies a thin interstitial applicator that produces a nearly spherical ablation zone in malignant liver tumor and investigates how the frequency of operation can affect the quality of MWA procedure. The paper then proposes a similar thin applicator but much shorter for MWA.

