Recent papers for Levin Anat:

2023: Fast fluorescent wavefront-shaping using incoherent iterative time reversal (Conference Presentation)
Abstract: None

2023: Enhancing speckle statistics for imaging inside scattering tissue
Abstract: We exploit memory effect correlations in speckles for the imaging of incoherent fluorescent sources behind scattering tissue. These correlations are often weak when imaging thick scattering tissues and complex illumination patterns, both of which greatly limit the practicality of associated techniques. In this work, we introduce a spatial light modulator between the tissue sample and the imaging sensor and capture multiple modulations of the speckle pattern. We show that, by correctly designing the modulation patterns and the associated reconstruction algorithm, the statistical correlations in the measurements can be greatly enhanced. We exploit this to demonstrate the reconstruction of mega-pixel sized fluorescent patterns behind the scattering tissue.

2023: Rapid fluorescent wavefront shaping using incoherent power iterations
Abstract: Wavefront shaping correction aims to image fluorescent particles deep inside scattering tissue. This requires determining a correction mask to be placed in both excitation and emission paths. Standard optimization-based approaches for finding this correction are prohibitively slow. To reduce acquisition cost, iterative phase conjugation techniques use the observation that the desired correction mask is an eigenvector of the tissue transmission operator. They then determine this eigenvector via optical implementations of the power iteration method, which require capturing orders of magnitude fewer images. Existing iterative phase conjugation techniques apply to fully-coherent imaging systems. We extend such techniques to the incoherent case for the first time. The fact that light emitted from different sources sums incoherently makes linear transmission operators inapplicable. We show that, surprisingly, the non-linearity due to incoherent summation results in an order-of-magnitude acceleration in the convergence of the phase conjugation iteration.

2023: Acquiring the phase function of volumetric scattering materials using speckle correlation
Abstract: We are interested in measuring the volumetric scattering phase function of materials. While previous approaches have relied on computationally costly inverse rendering optimization, we suggest a simple closed-form approach, for acquiring scattering phase function from thick samples. We have built a prototype capable of measuring phase functions over a narrow angular cone. We test our approach using validation materials whose phase function is known; and we use it to capture a set of everyday materials.

2023: Analysis of phase masks for wide étendue holographic displays
Abstract: Spatial light modulator (SLM) technology forms the centerpiece of digital holographic displays. However, an inherent limitation of these devices is that their ´etendue, defined as the product of the display’s eye box and field of view (FoV), is bounded by the number of pixel units. As a consequence, current SLMs are far from meeting the required FoV and eye box for the human visual system, which would require scaling the number of display units by a few orders of magnitude. Existing strategies for ´etendue-expansion rely on introducing a diffractive optical element (DOE), a fixed random phase mask whose pitch is much smaller than that of the original display, thereby spreading light over a wider angle. Displayed content is then optimized under perceptual constraints on the generated image. However, since the phase mask is fixed, the number of degrees of freedom does not increase and hence, the expansion in ´etendue necessarily comes with a loss of image quality. The trade-offs involved with such phase masks are not well understood. This paper studies the space of phase masks that can be attached to an SLM to increase its angular range. It attempts to characterize what trade-offs are involved in ´etendue-expansion, and whatever specific phase mask designs would support better holograms. We show that while pseudo random masks support wide-´etendue, they involve an inherent loss of contrast. Perhaps surprisingly, simple commonly-available phase masks like lenslet arrays provide near-optimal results that can largely outperform random masks.

2023: Non-invasive and noise-robust light focusing using confocal wavefront shaping
Abstract: None

2023: Efficient Monte Carlo simulation of spatio-temporal speckles and their correlations
Abstract: ,

2022: Swept-Angle Synthetic Wavelength Interferometry
Abstract: We present a new imaging technique, swept-angle synthetic wavelength interferometry, for full-field micron-scale 3D sensing. As in conventional synthetic wavelength interferometry, our technique uses light consisting of two narrowly-separated optical wavelengths, resulting in per-pixel inter-ferometric measurements whose phase encodes scene depth. Our technique additionally uses a new type of light source that, by emulating spatially-incoherent illumination, makes interferometric measurements insensitive to aberrations and (sub)surface scattering, effects that corrupt phase measurements. The resulting technique combines the robustness to such corruptions of scanning interferometric setups, with the speed of full-field interferometric setups. Overall, our technique can recover full-frame depth at a lateral and axial resolution of 5 µm, at frame rates of 5 Hz, even under strong ambient light. We build an experimental prototype, and use it to demonstrate these capabilities by scanning a variety of objects, including objects representative of applications in inspection and fabrication, and objects that contain challenging light scattering effects.

2022: Towards machine learning for heterogeneous inverse scattering in 3D microscopy.
Abstract: Light propagating through a nonuniform medium scatters as it interacts with particles with different refractive properties such as cells in the tissue. In this work we aim to utilize this scattering process to learn a volumetric reconstruction of scattering parameters, in particular particle densities. We target microscopy applications where coherent speckle effects are an integral part of the imaging process. We argue that the key for successful learning is modeling realistic speckles in the training process. To this end, we build on the development of recent physically accurate speckle simulators. We also explore how to incorporate speckle statistics, such as the memory effect, in the learning framework. Overall, this paper contributes an analysis of multiple aspects of the network design including the learning architecture, the training data and the desired input features. We hope this study will pave the road for future design of learning based imaging systems in this challenging domain.

2022: Direct phase function acquisition using speckle correlations
Abstract: We capture volumetric scattering materials under two nearby coherent illumination directions. We show that correlations between speckle patterns can be converted into closed-form to reveal intrinsic material phase function, determining scattering at different angles.

2022: Analyzing phase masks for wide étendue holographic displays
Abstract: Spatial light modulator (SLM) technology forms the centerpiece of digital holographic displays. However, an inherent limitation of these devices is that their etendue, defined as the product of the display's eye box and field of view, is bounded by the number of pixel units. As a consequence, current SLMs are far from meeting the required field-of-view and eye box for the human visual system, which would require scaling the number of display units by a few orders of magnitude. Existing strategies for etendue-expansion rely on introducing a diffractive optical element (DOE), a fixed random phase mask whose pitch is much smaller than that of the original display, thereby spreading light over a wider angle. Displayed content is then optimized under perceptual constraints on the generated image. However, since the phase mask is fixed, the number of degrees of freedom does not increase and hence, the expansion in etendue necessarily comes with a loss of image quality. The tradeofts involved with such phase masks are not well understood. This paper studies the space of phase masks that can be attached to an SLM to increase its angular range. It attempts to characterize what trade-offs are involved in etendue-expansion, and whatever specific phase mask designs would support better holograms. Our theoretical results show that etendue expansion comes with a commensurate loss of contrast or resolution, depending on the specifics of the mask that we use. We show that while pseudo random masks support wide-etendue, they involve an inherent loss of contrast. Perhaps surprisingly, simple commonly-available phase masks like lenslet arrays provide near-optimal results that can largely outperform random masks.

2022: Enhancing Speckle Statistics for Imaging Inside Scattering Media
Abstract: We propose a new modulation scheme that allows enhancing memory effect correlations in speckle images produced by mutually incoherent sources. We use this to recover fluorescent sources behind scattering tissue.

2022: Direct acquisition of volumetric scattering phase function using speckle correlations
Abstract: In material acquisition we want to infer the internal properties of materials from the way they scatter light. In particular, we are interested in measuring the phase function of the material, governing the amount of energy scattered towards different directions. This phase function has been shown to carry a lot of information about the type and size of particles dispersed in the medium, and is therefore essential for its characterization. Previous approaches to this task have relied on computationally costly inverse rendering optimization. Alternatively, if the material can be made optically thin enough so that most light paths scatter only once, this optimization can be avoided and the phase function can be directly read from the profile of light scattering at different angles. However, in many realistic applications, it is not easy to slice or dilute the material so that it is thin enough for such a single scattering model to hold. In this work we suggest a simple closed-form approach for acquiring material parameters from thick samples, avoiding costly optimization. Our approach is based on imaging the material of interest under coherent laser light and capturing speckle patterns. We show that memory-effect correlations between speckle patterns produced under nearby illumination directions provide a gating mechanism, allowing us to measure the singly scattered component of the light, even when observing thick samples where most light is scattered multiple times. We have built an experimental prototype capable of measuring phase functions over a narrow angular cone. We test the accuracy of our approach using validation materials whose ground truth phase function is known; and we use it to capture a set of everyday materials.

2022: Imaging Inside Tissue Using Speckle Statistics
Abstract: None

2022: Passive Micron-Scale Time-of-Flight with Sunlight Interferometry
Abstract: We introduce an interferometric technique for passive time-of-flight imaging and depth sensing at micrometer axial resolutions. Our technique uses a full-field Michelson interferometer, modified to use sunlight as the only light source. The large spectral bandwidth of sunlight makes it possible to acquire micrometer-resolution time-resolved scene responses, through a simple axial scanning operation. Additionally, the angular bandwidth of sunlight makes it possible to capture time-of-flight measurements insensitive to indirect illumination effects, such as interreflections and subsurface scattering. We build an experimental prototype that we operate outdoors, under direct sunlight, and in adverse environment conditions such as machine vibrations and vehicle traffic. We use this prototype to demonstrate, for the first time, passive imaging capabilities such as micrometer-scale depth sensing robust to indirect illumination, direct-only imaging, and imaging through diffusers.

2021: Single scattering modeling of speckle correlation
Abstract: Coherent images of scattering materials, such as biological tissue, typically exhibit high-frequency intensity fluctuations known as speckle. These seemingly noise-like speckle patterns have strong statistical correlation properties that have been successfully utilized by computational imaging systems in different application areas. Unfortunately, these properties are not well-understood, in part due to the difficulty of simulating physically-accurate speckle patterns. In this work, we propose a new model for speckle statistics based on a single scattering approximation, that is, the assumption that all light contributing to speckle correlation has scattered only once. Even though single-scattering models have been used in computer vision and graphics to approximate intensity images due to scattering, such models usually hold only for very optically thin materials, where light indeed does not scatter more than once. In contrast, we show that the single-scattering model for speckle correlation remains accurate for much thicker materials. We evaluate the accuracy of the single-scattering correlation model through exhaustive comparisons against an exact speckle correlation simulator. We additionally demonstrate the model's accuracy through comparisons with real lab measurements. We show, that for many practical application settings, predictions from the single-scattering model are more accurate than those from other approximate models popular in optics, such as the diffusion and Fokker-Planck models. We show how to use the single-scattering model to derive closed-form expressions for speckle correlation, and how these expressions can facilitate the study of statistical speckle properties. In particular, we demonstrate that these expressions provide simple explanations for previously reported speckle properties, and lead to the discovery of new ones. Finally, we discuss potential applications for future computational imaging systems.

2021: Imaging with Local Speckle Intensity Correlations: Theory and Practice
Abstract: Recent advances in computational imaging have significantly expanded our ability to image through scattering layers such as biological tissues by exploiting the auto-correlation properties of captured speckle intensity patterns. However, most experimental demonstrations of this capability focus on the far-field imaging setting, where obscured light sources are very far from the scattering layer. By contrast, medical imaging applications such as fluorescent imaging operate in the near-field imaging setting, where sources are inside the scattering layer. We provide a theoretical and experimental study of the similarities and differences between the two settings, highlighting the increased challenges posed by the near-field setting. We then draw insights from this analysis to develop a new algorithm for imaging through scattering that is tailored to the near-field setting by taking advantage of unique properties of speckle patterns formed under this setting, such as their local support. We present a theoretical analysis of the advantages of our algorithm and perform real experiments in both far-field and near-field configurations, showing an order-of magnitude expansion in both the range and the density of the obscured patterns that can be recovered.

2021: Reference Wave Design for Wavefront Sensing
Abstract: One of the classical results in wavefront sensing is phase-shifting point diffraction interferometry (PS-PDI), where the phase of a wavefront is measured by interfering it with a planar reference created from the incident wave itself. The limiting drawback of this approach is that the planar reference, often created by passing light through a narrow pinhole, is dim and noise sensitive. We address this limitation with a novel approach called ReWave that uses a non-planar reference that is designed to be brighter. The reference wave is designed in a specific way that would still allow for analytic phase recovery, exploiting ideas of sparse phase retrieval algorithms. ReWave requires only four image intensity measurements and is significantly more robust to noise compared to PS-PDI. We validate the robustness and applicability of our approach using a suite of simulated and real results.

2021: Near-field imaging inside scattering layers
Abstract: We use speckle intensity correlations to image incoherent illuminators inside scattering samples. Our approach uses correlation properties specific to speckle patterns created by near-field illuminators. Compared to previous far-field approaches, our approach achieves order-of-magnitude expansion in both the range and density of illuminators it can recover. © 2021 The Author(s)

2021: A Single scattering analysis of speckle correlation
Abstract: We propose a closed-form expression for memory effect speckle correlations, enriching our understanding of their unique properties. The model considers only the single-scattering component of light, yet offers a good approximation even in thicker volumes. © 2021 The Author(s)

