Recent papers for Malah David:

2018: Point Cloud Registration Refinement in an Urban Environment using 2D Edge-Maps
Abstract: As 3D point cloud acquisition sensors become increasingly prevalent in urban environments (e.g., LiDAR sensors for autonomous vehicles), the need arises to find efficient ways to align large amounts of such 3D data, often in real-time. In this work, we propose a novel method for 3D point cloud registration refinement in an urban environment (e.g., between Terrestrial LiDAR Scans - TLS - and Airborne LiDAR Scans - ALS), assuming an initial coarse registration is available. The proposed method is based on estimation of the direction of gravity, wall detection, projection of the point clouds on a perpendicular horizontal plane, and conversion into 2D edge-maps. Then, two methods are considered for alignment between the 2D edge-maps: a 2D variant of the well-known ICP (Iterative Closest Point) algorithm, and Edge-Map Phase-Correlation (EMPC). We demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed methods for registration in this challenging task, where the 2D variant of ICP achieves a meaningful advantage over 3D ICP in terms of runtime, while maintaining comparable registration accuracy.

2018: Discriminative Keyword Spotting for limited-data applications
Abstract: None

2017: FIR-based symmetrical acoustic beamformer with a constant beamwidth
Abstract: None

2017: Local-to-Global Point Cloud Registration Using a Dictionary of Viewpoint Descriptors
Abstract: Local-to global point cloud registration is a challenging task due to the substantial differences between these two types of data, and the different techniques used to acquire them. Global clouds cover large-scale environments and are usually acquired aerially, e.g., 3D modeling of a city using Airborne Laser Scanning (ALS). In contrast, local clouds are often acquired from ground level and at a much smaller range, for example, using Terrestrial Laser Scanning (TLS). The differences are often manifested in point density distribution, occlusions nature, and measurement noise. As a result of these differences, existing point cloud registration approaches, such as keypoint-based registration, tend to fail. We improve upon a different approach, recently proposed, based on converting the global cloud into a viewpoint-based cloud dictionary. We propose a local-toglobal registration method where we replace the dictionary clouds with viewpoint descriptors, consisting of panoramic range-images. We then use an efficient dictionary search in the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) domain, using phase correlation, to rapidly find plausible transformations from the local to the global reference frame. We demonstrate our method’s significant advantages over the previous cloud dictionary approach, in terms of computational efficiency and memory requirements. In addition, We show its superior registration performance in comparison to a state-ofthe- art, keypoint-based method (FPFH). For the evaluation, we use a challenging dataset of TLS local clouds and an ALS large-scale global cloud, in an urban environment.

2016: Grid-based approximation for voice conversion in low resource environments
Abstract: None

2016: A subjective listening test of six different artificial bandwidth extension approaches in English, Chinese, German, and Korean
Abstract: In studies on artificial bandwidth extension (ABE), there is a lack of international coordination in subjective tests between multiple methods and languages. Here we present the design of absolute category rating listening tests evaluating 12 ABE variants of six approaches in multiple languages, namely in American English, Chinese, German, and Korean. Since the number of ABE variants caused a higher-than-recommended length of the listening test, ABE variants were distributed into two separate listening tests per language. The paper focuses on the listening test design, which aimed at merging the subjective scores of both tests and thus allows for a joint analysis of all ABE variants under test at once. A language-dependent analysis, evaluating ABE variants in the context of the underlying coded narrowband speech condition showed statistical significant improvement in English, German, and Korean for some ABE solutions.

2016: Grid-based approximation for voice conversion in low resource environments
Abstract: None

2016: Point cloud registration using a viewpoint dictionary
Abstract: The use of 3D point clouds is currently of much interest. One of the cornerstones of 3D point cloud research and applications is point cloud registration. Given two point clouds, the goal of registration is aligning them in a common coordinate system. In particular, we seek in this work to align a sparse and noisy local point cloud, created from a single stereo pair of images, to a dense and large-scale global point cloud, representing an urban outdoors environment. The common approach of keypoint-based registration, tends to fail due to the sparsity and low quality of the stereo local cloud. We propose here a new approach. It consists of the creation of a dictionary of much smaller clouds using a grid of synthetic viewpoints over the dense global cloud. We then perform registration via an efficient dictionary search. Our approach shows promising results on data acquired in an urban environment.

2015: IEEE-2014 BerkovichMalahBarzohar
Abstract: None

2015: HEART RATE ESTIMATION FROM PPG SIGNAL USING SOFT DECISION SUBMITTED TO 2015 IEEE SIGNAL PROCESSING CUP Students: Oz Sharlin, Aviya Maimon and Tom Srugo. Supervisors: Rami Cohen and David Malah. Signal and Image Processing Lab (SIPL)
Abstract: In this paper, we describe an algorithm for estimating heart rate from an optically measured PPG signal when physical exercises are performed. In this case, the PPG signal is contaminated by motion artifacts caused by hand movements, making it difficult to find its fundamental frequency that corresponds to the heart rate. To overcome the noise, a soft decision approach is taken, by which several candidates for the fundamental frequency of the PPG signal are extracted and assigned grades. By appropriate grade weighting, the candidate having the maximal grade is selected. The presented algorithm is of low complexity and shown to provide good results. As such, it can be used in low-power portable devices for real time heart rate estimation.

2014: Effect of correlation between Non-Local Means patch dissimilarities on search region adaptation for improved image denoising
Abstract: In this paper we refer to the correlation analysis between the Non-Local Means (NLM) dissimilarity elements within a given search region. This analysis is required for a more accurate determination of a model-based adaptive search region that we introduced earlier. We explore three levels of correlation according to the degree of patches overlap and explain how this analysis can be used in our model-based NLM approach.

2014: Non-parallel voice conversion using joint optimization of alignment by temporal context and spectral distortion
Abstract: Many voice conversion systems require parallel training sets of the source and target speakers. Non-parallel training is more complicated as it involves evaluation of source-target correspondence along with the conversion function itself. INCA is a recently proposed method for non-parallel training, based on iterative estimation of alignment and conversion function. The alignment is evaluated using a simple nearest-neighbor search, which often leads to phonetic miss-matched source-target pairs. We propose here a generalized approach, denoted as Temporal-Context INCA (TC-INCA), based on matching temporal context vectors. We formulate the training stage as a minimization problem of a joint cost, considering both context-based alignment and conversion function. We show that TC-INCA reduces the joint cost and prove its convergence. Experimental results indicate that TC-INCA significantly improves the alignment accuracy, compared to INCA. Moreover, subjective evaluations show that TC-INCA leads to improved quality of the synthesized output signals, when small training sets are used.

2014: Sequential voice conversion using grid-based approximation
Abstract: Common voice conversion methods are based on Gaussian Mixture Modeling (GMM), which requires exhaustive training (typically lasting hours), often leading to ill-conditioning if the dataset used is too small. We propose a new conversion method that is trained in seconds, using either small or large scale datasets. The proposed Grid-Based (GB) method is based on sequential Bayesian tracking, by which the conversion process is expressed as a sequential estimation problem of tracking the target spectrum based on the observed source spectrum. The converted MFCC vectors are sequentially evaluated using a weighted sum of the target training set used as grid-points. To improve the perceived quality of the synthesized signals, we use a post-processing block for enhancing the global variance. Objective and subjective evaluations show that the enhanced-GB method is comparable to classic GMM-based methods, in terms of quality, and comparable to their enhanced versions, in terms of individuality.

2013: Non-local means denoising using a content-based search region and dissimilarity kernel
Abstract: The Non-Local Means (NLM) denoising algorithm uses a weighted average of pixels, within a defined search region in an image, to estimate the noise-free pixel value. The search region is usually a rectangular neighborhood, centered at the pixel of interest, which may include pixels whose original gray value do not match the value of the original central pixel. Consequently, their participation in the averaging process degrades denoising performance. To eliminate their effect, researchers suggest creating an adaptive search region which excludes those dissimilar pixels. In this paper, we present a novel model-based method which defines a set of similar pixels, from the initial search region, using the statistical distribution of the dissimilarity measure. Moreover, to enhance the denoising, our method also adaptively assigns one of two dissimilarity kernels to each pixel, based on its local features. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm has better performance than the original one in terms of PSNR, SSIM, and visual quality and is found to be more efficient than other examined approaches.

2012: Modular Global Variance enhancement for voice conversion systems
Abstract: Voice conversion systems aim to transform sentences said by one speaker, to sound as if another speaker had said them. Many statistically trained conversion methods produce muffled synthesized outputs due to over-smoothing of the converted spectra. To deal with the muffling effect, conversion methods integrated with Global Variance (GV) enhancement, have been proposed. In order to gain the benefits of GV enhancement, the user is restricted to apply one of these methods as a conversion method. We propose a new GV enhancement method designed independently of any specific conversion scheme and applied as a post-processing block. The extent of GV enhancement is controlled through the allowed spectral distance between the enhanced and the originally converted output, as specified by the user. Listening tests showed that the proposed method improves both quality and similarity to the target of the examined converted sentences, outperforming other enhancement approaches that we evaluated.

2012: Evaluation of a Speech Bandwidth Extension Algorithm Based on Vocal Tract Shape Estimation
Abstract: In this paper, we evaluate a speech bandwidth extension (BWE) algorithm which involves phonetic and speaker dependent estimation of the high-band part of the spectral envelope. The BWE algorithm extracts speech phoneme information by using a hidden Markov model. Speaker vocal tract shape information corresponding to the wideband signal is extracted by a codebook search. Postprocessing of the estimated vocal tract shape using iterative tuning allows artifacts reduction in cases of erroneous estimation of speech phoneme or vocal tract shape. We present objective measurements results demonstrating the benefit of the iterative tuning. Subjective listening tests illustrate improved wideband quality in comparison to the input narrowband speech. The algorithm complexity is also analyzed.

2012: Quality Preserving Compression of a Concatenative Text-To-Speech Acoustic Database
Abstract: A concatenative text-to-speech (CTTS) synthesizer requires a large acoustic database for high-quality speech synthesis. This database consists of many acoustic leaves, each containing a number of short, compressed, speech segments. In this paper, we propose two algorithms for recompression of the acoustic database, by recompressing the data in each acoustic leaf, without compromising the perceptual quality of the obtained synthesized speech. This is achieved by exploiting the redundancy between speech frames and speech segments in the acoustic leaf. The first approach is based on a vector polynomial temporal decomposition. The second is based on 3-D shape-adaptive discrete cosine transform (DCT), followed by optimized quantization. In addition we propose a segment ordering algorithm in an attempt to improve overall performance. The developed algorithms are generic and may be applied to a variety of compression challenges. When applied to compressed spectral amplitude parameters of a specific IBM small footprint CTTS database, we obtain a recompression factor of 2 without any perceived degradation in the quality of the synthesized speech.

2012: LORD: LOw-complexity, Rate-controlled, Distributed Video Coding System
Abstract: Distributed Video Coding (DVC) is an emerging coding scheme that employs principles of source coding with side information (SI) at the decoder. In this paper, we present a new DVC encoder, named LORD (LOw-complexity, Rate-controlled, Distributed video coding system). No feedback channel is used in our encoder, and an adaptive noise model that varies both spatially and temporally is employed. The SI is created using motion extrapolation, resulting in a low delay encoding process. We extend LORD for encoding videos acquired by Bayer sensors in endoscopy, in which only partial information of the colors in each pixel is known. This special video format has not been addressed yet in the DVC framework. We show that, using LORD, a significant improvement in performance is achieved over a standard intra-coding method with a similar complexity, on a set of examined videos.

2011: A Hybrid Text-to-Speech System That Combines Concatenative and Statistical Synthesis Units
Abstract: Concatenative synthesis and statistical synthesis are the two main approaches to text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis. Concatenative TTS (CTTS) stores natural speech features segments, selected from a recorded speech database. Consequently, CTTS systems enable speech synthesis with natural quality. However, as the footprint of the stored data is reduced, desired segments are not always available in the stored data, and audible discontinuities may result. On the other hand, statistical TTS (STTS) systems, in spite of having a smaller footprint than CTTS, synthesize speech that is free of such discontinuities. Yet, in general, STTS produces lower quality speech than CTTS, in terms of naturalness, as it is often sounding muffled. The muffling effect is due to over-smoothing of model-generated speech features. In order to gain from the advantages of each of the two approaches, we propose in this work to combine CTTS and STTS into a hybrid TTS (HTTS) system. Each utterance representation in HTTS is constructed from natural segments and model generated segments in an interweaved fashion via a hybrid dynamic path algorithm. Reported listening tests demonstrate the validity of the proposed approach.

2011: Voice Conversion Using GMM with Enhanced Global Variance
Abstract: The goal of voice conversion is to transform a sentence said by one speaker, to sound as if another speaker had said it. The classical conversion based on a Gaussian Mixture Model and several other schemes suggested since, produce muffled sounding outputs, due to excessive smoothing of the spectral envelopes. To reduce the muffling effect, enhancement of the Global Variance (GV) of the spectral features was recently suggested. We propose a different approach for GV enhancement, based on the classical conversion formalized as a GV-constrained minimization. Listening tests show that an improvement in quality is achieved by the proposed approach.

