Recent papers for Maron Haggai:

2024: The Empirical Impact of Neural Parameter Symmetries, or Lack Thereof
Abstract: Many algorithms and observed phenomena in deep learning appear to be affected by parameter symmetries -- transformations of neural network parameters that do not change the underlying neural network function. These include linear mode connectivity, model merging, Bayesian neural network inference, metanetworks, and several other characteristics of optimization or loss-landscapes. However, theoretical analysis of the relationship between parameter space symmetries and these phenomena is difficult. In this work, we empirically investigate the impact of neural parameter symmetries by introducing new neural network architectures that have reduced parameter space symmetries. We develop two methods, with some provable guarantees, of modifying standard neural networks to reduce parameter space symmetries. With these new methods, we conduct a comprehensive experimental study consisting of multiple tasks aimed at assessing the effect of removing parameter symmetries. Our experiments reveal several interesting observations on the empirical impact of parameter symmetries; for instance, we observe linear mode connectivity between our networks without alignment of weight spaces, and we find that our networks allow for faster and more effective Bayesian neural network training. Our code is available at https://github.com/cptq/asymmetric-networks

2024: Position: Future Directions in the Theory of Graph Machine Learning
Abstract: None

2024: On the Reconstruction of Training Data from Group Invariant Networks
Abstract: Reconstructing training data from trained neural networks is an active area of research with significant implications for privacy and explainability. Recent advances have demonstrated the feasibility of this process for several data types. However, reconstructing data from group-invariant neural networks poses distinct challenges that remain largely unexplored. This paper addresses this gap by first formulating the problem and discussing some of its basic properties. We then provide an experimental evaluation demonstrating that conventional reconstruction techniques are inadequate in this scenario. Specifically, we observe that the resulting data reconstructions gravitate toward symmetric inputs on which the group acts trivially, leading to poor-quality results. Finally, we propose two novel methods aiming to improve reconstruction in this setup and present promising preliminary experimental results. Our work sheds light on the complexities of reconstructing data from group invariant neural networks and offers potential avenues for future research in this domain.

2024: Future Directions in the Theory of Graph Machine Learning
Abstract: Machine learning on graphs, especially using graph neural networks (GNNs), has seen a surge in interest due to the wide availability of graph data across a broad spectrum of disciplines, from life to social and engineering sciences. Despite their practical success, our theoretical understanding of the properties of GNNs remains highly incomplete. Recent theoretical advancements primarily focus on elucidating the coarse-grained expressive power of GNNs, predominantly employing combinatorial techniques. However, these studies do not perfectly align with practice, particularly in understanding the generalization behavior of GNNs when trained with stochastic first-order optimization techniques. In this position paper, we argue that the graph machine learning community needs to shift its attention to developing a balanced theory of graph machine learning, focusing on a more thorough understanding of the interplay of expressive power, generalization, and optimization.

2024: Fast Encoder-Based 3D from Casual Videos via Point Track Processing
Abstract: This paper addresses the long-standing challenge of reconstructing 3D structures from videos with dynamic content. Current approaches to this problem were not designed to operate on casual videos recorded by standard cameras or require a long optimization time. Aiming to significantly improve the efficiency of previous approaches, we present TracksTo4D, a learning-based approach that enables inferring 3D structure and camera positions from dynamic content originating from casual videos using a single efficient feed-forward pass. To achieve this, we propose operating directly over 2D point tracks as input and designing an architecture tailored for processing 2D point tracks. Our proposed architecture is designed with two key principles in mind: (1) it takes into account the inherent symmetries present in the input point tracks data, and (2) it assumes that the movement patterns can be effectively represented using a low-rank approximation. TracksTo4D is trained in an unsupervised way on a dataset of casual videos utilizing only the 2D point tracks extracted from the videos, without any 3D supervision. Our experiments show that TracksTo4D can reconstruct a temporal point cloud and camera positions of the underlying video with accuracy comparable to state-of-the-art methods, while drastically reducing runtime by up to 95\%. We further show that TracksTo4D generalizes well to unseen videos of unseen semantic categories at inference time.

2024: Learning on LoRAs: GL-Equivariant Processing of Low-Rank Weight Spaces for Large Finetuned Models
Abstract: Low-rank adaptations (LoRAs) have revolutionized the finetuning of large foundation models, enabling efficient adaptation even with limited computational resources. The resulting proliferation of LoRAs presents exciting opportunities for applying machine learning techniques that take these low-rank weights themselves as inputs. In this paper, we investigate the potential of Learning on LoRAs (LoL), a paradigm where LoRA weights serve as input to machine learning models. For instance, an LoL model that takes in LoRA weights as inputs could predict the performance of the finetuned model on downstream tasks, detect potentially harmful finetunes, or even generate novel model edits without traditional training methods. We first identify the inherent parameter symmetries of low rank decompositions of weights, which differ significantly from the parameter symmetries of standard neural networks. To efficiently process LoRA weights, we develop several symmetry-aware invariant or equivariant LoL models, using tools such as canonicalization, invariant featurization, and equivariant layers. We finetune thousands of text-to-image diffusion models and language models to collect datasets of LoRAs. In numerical experiments on these datasets, we show that our LoL architectures are capable of processing low rank weight decompositions to predict CLIP score, finetuning data attributes, finetuning data membership, and accuracy on downstream tasks.

2024: On the Expressive Power of Spectral Invariant Graph Neural Networks
Abstract: Incorporating spectral information to enhance Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) has shown promising results but raises a fundamental challenge due to the inherent ambiguity of eigenvectors. Various architectures have been proposed to address this ambiguity, referred to as spectral invariant architectures. Notable examples include GNNs and Graph Transformers that use spectral distances, spectral projection matrices, or other invariant spectral features. However, the potential expressive power of these spectral invariant architectures remains largely unclear. The goal of this work is to gain a deep theoretical understanding of the expressive power obtainable when using spectral features. We first introduce a unified message-passing framework for designing spectral invariant GNNs, called Eigenspace Projection GNN (EPNN). A comprehensive analysis shows that EPNN essentially unifies all prior spectral invariant architectures, in that they are either strictly less expressive or equivalent to EPNN. A fine-grained expressiveness hierarchy among different architectures is also established. On the other hand, we prove that EPNN itself is bounded by a recently proposed class of Subgraph GNNs, implying that all these spectral invariant architectures are strictly less expressive than 3-WL. Finally, we discuss whether using spectral features can gain additional expressiveness when combined with more expressive GNNs.

2023: Expressive Sign Equivariant Networks for Spectral Geometric Learning
Abstract: Recent work has shown the utility of developing machine learning models that respect the structure and symmetries of eigenvectors. These works promote sign invariance, since for any eigenvector v the negation -v is also an eigenvector. However, we show that sign invariance is theoretically limited for tasks such as building orthogonally equivariant models and learning node positional encodings for link prediction in graphs. In this work, we demonstrate the benefits of sign equivariance for these tasks. To obtain these benefits, we develop novel sign equivariant neural network architectures. Our models are based on a new analytic characterization of sign equivariant polynomials and thus inherit provable expressiveness properties. Controlled synthetic experiments show that our networks can achieve the theoretically predicted benefits of sign equivariant models. Code is available at https://github.com/cptq/Sign-Equivariant-Nets.

2023: Graph Metanetworks for Processing Diverse Neural Architectures
Abstract: Neural networks efficiently encode learned information within their parameters. Consequently, many tasks can be unified by treating neural networks themselves as input data. When doing so, recent studies demonstrated the importance of accounting for the symmetries and geometry of parameter spaces. However, those works developed architectures tailored to specific networks such as MLPs and CNNs without normalization layers, and generalizing such architectures to other types of networks can be challenging. In this work, we overcome these challenges by building new metanetworks - neural networks that take weights from other neural networks as input. Put simply, we carefully build graphs representing the input neural networks and process the graphs using graph neural networks. Our approach, Graph Metanetworks (GMNs), generalizes to neural architectures where competing methods struggle, such as multi-head attention layers, normalization layers, convolutional layers, ResNet blocks, and group-equivariant linear layers. We prove that GMNs are expressive and equivariant to parameter permutation symmetries that leave the input neural network functions unchanged. We validate the effectiveness of our method on several metanetwork tasks over diverse neural network architectures.

2023: Hierarchical Graph Neural Network with Cross-Attention for Cross-Device User Matching
Abstract: Cross-device user matching is a critical problem in numerous domains, including advertising, recommender systems, and cybersecurity. It involves identifying and linking different devices belonging to the same person, utilizing sequence logs. Previous data mining techniques have struggled to address the long-range dependencies and higher-order connections between the logs. Recently, researchers have modeled this problem as a graph problem and proposed a two-tier graph contextual embedding (TGCE) neural network architecture, which outperforms previous methods. In this paper, we propose a novel hierarchical graph neural network architecture (HGNN), which has a more computationally efficient second level design than TGCE. Furthermore, we introduce a cross-attention (Cross-Att) mechanism in our model, which improves performance by 5% compared to the state-of-the-art TGCE method.

2023: Equivariant Polynomials for Graph Neural Networks
Abstract: Graph Neural Networks (GNN) are inherently limited in their expressive power. Recent seminal works (Xu et al., 2019; Morris et al., 2019b) introduced the Weisfeiler-Lehman (WL) hierarchy as a measure of expressive power. Although this hierarchy has propelled significant advances in GNN analysis and architecture developments, it suffers from several significant limitations. These include a complex definition that lacks direct guidance for model improvement and a WL hierarchy that is too coarse to study current GNNs. This paper introduces an alternative expressive power hierarchy based on the ability of GNNs to calculate equivariant polynomials of a certain degree. As a first step, we provide a full characterization of all equivariant graph polynomials by introducing a concrete basis, significantly generalizing previous results. Each basis element corresponds to a specific multi-graph, and its computation over some graph data input corresponds to a tensor contraction problem. Second, we propose algorithmic tools for evaluating the expressiveness of GNNs using tensor contraction sequences, and calculate the expressive power of popular GNNs. Finally, we enhance the expressivity of common GNN architectures by adding polynomial features or additional operations / aggregations inspired by our theory. These enhanced GNNs demonstrate state-of-the-art results in experiments across multiple graph learning benchmarks.

2022: A Simple and Universal Rotation Equivariant Point-cloud Network
Abstract: Equivariance to permutations and rigid motions is an important inductive bias for various 3D learning problems. Recently it has been shown that the equivariant Tensor Field Network architecture is universal -- it can approximate any equivariant function. In this paper we suggest a much simpler architecture, prove that it enjoys the same universality guarantees and evaluate its performance on Modelnet40. The code to reproduce our experiments is available at \url{https://github.com/simpleinvariance/UniversalNetwork}

2022: Understanding and Extending Subgraph GNNs by Rethinking Their Symmetries
Abstract: Subgraph GNNs are a recent class of expressive Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) which model graphs as collections of subgraphs. So far, the design space of possible Subgraph GNN architectures as well as their basic theoretical properties are still largely unexplored. In this paper, we study the most prominent form of subgraph methods, which employs node-based subgraph selection policies such as ego-networks or node marking and deletion. We address two central questions: (1) What is the upper-bound of the expressive power of these methods? and (2) What is the family of equivariant message passing layers on these sets of subgraphs?. Our first step in answering these questions is a novel symmetry analysis which shows that modelling the symmetries of node-based subgraph collections requires a significantly smaller symmetry group than the one adopted in previous works. This analysis is then used to establish a link between Subgraph GNNs and Invariant Graph Networks (IGNs). We answer the questions above by first bounding the expressive power of subgraph methods by 3-WL, and then proposing a general family of message-passing layers for subgraph methods that generalises all previous node-based Subgraph GNNs. Finally, we design a novel Subgraph GNN dubbed SUN, which theoretically unifies previous architectures while providing better empirical performance on multiple benchmarks.

2022: Generalized Laplacian Positional Encoding for Graph Representation Learning
Abstract: Graph neural networks (GNNs) are the primary tool for processing graph-structured data. Unfortunately, the most commonly used GNNs, called Message Passing Neural Networks (MPNNs) suffer from several fundamental limitations. To overcome these limitations, recent works have adapted the idea of positional encodings to graph data. This paper draws inspiration from the recent success of Laplacian-based positional encoding and defines a novel family of positional encoding schemes for graphs. We accomplish this by generalizing the optimization problem that defines the Laplace embedding to more general dissimilarity functions rather than the 2-norm used in the original formulation. This family of positional encodings is then instantiated by considering p-norms. We discuss a method for calculating these positional encoding schemes, implement it in PyTorch and demonstrate how the resulting positional encoding captures different properties of the graph. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this novel family of positional encodings can improve the expressive power of MPNNs. Lastly, we present preliminary experimental results.

2022: Optimizing Tensor Network Contraction Using Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Quantum Computing (QC) stands to revolutionize computing, but is currently still limited. To develop and test quantum algorithms today, quantum circuits are often simulated on classical computers. Simulating a complex quantum circuit requires computing the contraction of a large network of tensors. The order (path) of contraction can have a drastic effect on the computing cost, but finding an efficient order is a challenging combinatorial optimization problem. We propose a Reinforcement Learning (RL) approach combined with Graph Neural Networks (GNN) to address the contraction ordering problem. The problem is extremely challenging due to the huge search space, the heavy-tailed reward distribution, and the challenging credit assignment. We show how a carefully implemented RL-agent that uses a GNN as the basic policy construct can address these challenges and obtain significant improvements over state-of-the-art techniques in three varieties of circuits, including the largest scale networks used in contemporary QC.

2022: Sign and Basis Invariant Networks for Spectral Graph Representation Learning
Abstract: We introduce SignNet and BasisNet -- new neural architectures that are invariant to two key symmetries displayed by eigenvectors: (i) sign flips, since if $v$ is an eigenvector then so is $-v$; and (ii) more general basis symmetries, which occur in higher dimensional eigenspaces with infinitely many choices of basis eigenvectors. We prove that under certain conditions our networks are universal, i.e., they can approximate any continuous function of eigenvectors with the desired invariances. When used with Laplacian eigenvectors, our networks are provably more expressive than existing spectral methods on graphs; for instance, they subsume all spectral graph convolutions, certain spectral graph invariants, and previously proposed graph positional encodings as special cases. Experiments show that our networks significantly outperform existing baselines on molecular graph regression, learning expressive graph representations, and learning neural fields on triangle meshes. Our code is available at https://github.com/cptq/SignNet-BasisNet .

2022: Federated Learning with Heterogeneous Architectures using Graph HyperNetworks
Abstract: Standard Federated Learning (FL) techniques are limited to clients with identical network architectures. This restricts potential use-cases like cross-platform training or inter-organizational collaboration when both data privacy and architectural proprietary are required. We propose a new FL framework that accommodates heterogeneous client architecture by adopting a graph hypernetwork for parameter sharing. A property of the graph hyper network is that it can adapt to various computational graphs, thereby allowing meaningful parameter sharing across models. Unlike existing solutions, our framework does not limit the clients to share the same architecture type, makes no use of external data and does not require clients to disclose their model architecture. Compared with distillation-based and non-graph hypernetwork baselines, our method performs notably better on standard benchmarks. We additionally show encouraging generalization performance to unseen architectures.

2021: Deep Permutation Equivariant Structure from Motion
Abstract: Existing deep methods produce highly accurate 3D reconstructions in stereo and multiview stereo settings, i.e., when cameras are both internally and externally calibrated. Nevertheless, the challenge of simultaneous recovery of camera poses and 3D scene structure in multiview settings with deep networks is still outstanding. Inspired by projective factorization for Structure from Motion (SFM) and by deep matrix completion techniques, we propose a neural network architecture that, given a set of point tracks in multiple images of a static scene, recovers both the camera parameters and a (sparse) scene structure by minimizing an unsupervised reprojection loss. Our network architecture is designed to respect the structure of the problem: the sought output is equivariant to permutations of both cameras and scene points. Notably, our method does not require initialization of camera parameters or 3D point locations. We test our architecture in two setups: (1) single scene reconstruction and (2) learning from multiple scenes. Our experiments, conducted on a variety of datasets in both internally calibrated and uncalibrated settings, indicate that our method accurately recovers pose and structure, on par with classical state of the art methods. Additionally, we show that a pre-trained network can be used to reconstruct novel scenes using inexpensive fine-tuning with no loss of accuracy.

2021: On Learning Sets of Symmetric Elements (Extended Abstract)
Abstract: Learning from unordered sets is a fundamental learning setup, recently attracting increasing attention. Research in this area has focused on the case where elements of the set are represented by feature vectors, and far less emphasis has been given to the common case where set elements themselves adhere to their own symmetries. That case is relevant to numerous applications, from deblurring image bursts to multi-view 3D shape recognition and reconstruction. In this paper, we present a principled approach to learning sets of general symmetric elements. We first characterize the space of linear layers that are equivariant both to element reordering and to the inherent symmetries of elements, like translation in the case of images. We further show that networks that are composed of these layers, called Deep Sets for Symmetric Elements layers (DSS), are universal approximators of both invariant and equivariant functions, and that these networks are strictly more expressive than Siamese networks. DSS layers are also straightforward to implement. Finally, we show that they improve over existing set-learning architectures in a series of experiments with images, graphs, and point clouds.

2021: Equivariant Subgraph Aggregation Networks
Abstract: Message-passing neural networks (MPNNs) are the leading architecture for deep learning on graph-structured data, in large part due to their simplicity and scalability. Unfortunately, it was shown that these architectures are limited in their expressive power. This paper proposes a novel framework called Equivariant Subgraph Aggregation Networks (ESAN) to address this issue. Our main observation is that while two graphs may not be distinguishable by an MPNN, they often contain distinguishable subgraphs. Thus, we propose to represent each graph as a set of subgraphs derived by some predefined policy, and to process it using a suitable equivariant architecture. We develop novel variants of the 1-dimensional Weisfeiler-Leman (1-WL) test for graph isomorphism, and prove lower bounds on the expressiveness of ESAN in terms of these new WL variants. We further prove that our approach increases the expressive power of both MPNNs and more expressive architectures. Moreover, we provide theoretical results that describe how design choices such as the subgraph selection policy and equivariant neural architecture affect our architecture's expressive power. To deal with the increased computational cost, we propose a subgraph sampling scheme, which can be viewed as a stochastic version of our framework. A comprehensive set of experiments on real and synthetic datasets demonstrates that our framework improves the expressive power and overall performance of popular GNN architectures.

