Recent papers for Michael Elad:

2023: Class-Conditioned Transformation for Enhanced Robust Image Classification
Abstract: Robust classification methods predominantly concentrate on algorithms that address a specific threat model, resulting in ineffective defenses against other threat models. Real-world applications are exposed to this vulnerability, as malicious attackers might exploit alternative threat models. In this work, we propose a novel test-time threat model agnostic algorithm that enhances Adversarial-Trained (AT) models. Our method operates through COnditional image transformation and DIstance-based Prediction (CODIP) and includes two main steps: First, we transform the input image into each dataset class, where the input image might be either clean or attacked. Next, we make a prediction based on the shortest transformed distance. The conditional transformation utilizes the perceptually aligned gradients property possessed by AT models and, as a result, eliminates the need for additional models or additional training. Moreover, it allows users to choose the desired balance between clean and robust accuracy without training. The proposed method achieves state-of-the-art results demonstrated through extensive experiments on various models, AT methods, datasets, and attack types. Notably, applying CODIP leads to substantial robust accuracy improvement of up to $+23\%$, $+20\%$, $+26\%$, and $+22\%$ on CIFAR10, CIFAR100, ImageNet and Flowers datasets, respectively.

2023: CLIPAG: Towards Generator-Free Text-to-Image Generation
Abstract: Perceptually Aligned Gradients (PAG) refer to an intriguing property observed in robust image classification models, wherein their input gradients align with human perception and pose semantic meanings. While this phenomenon has gained significant research attention, it was solely studied in the context of unimodal vision-only architectures. In this work, we extend the study of PAG to Vision-Language architectures, which form the foundations for diverse image-text tasks and applications. Through an adversarial robustification finetuning of CLIP, we demonstrate that robust Vision-Language models exhibit PAG in contrast to their vanilla counterparts. This work reveals the merits of CLIP with PAG (CLIPAG) in several vision-language generative tasks. Notably, we show that seamlessly integrating CLIPAG in a "plug-n-play" manner leads to substantial improvements in vision-language generative applications. Furthermore, leveraging its PAG property, CLIPAG enables text-to-image generation without any generative model, which typically requires huge generators.

2023: Principal Uncertainty Quantification With Spatial Correlation for Image Restoration Problems
Abstract: Uncertainty quantification for inverse problems in imaging has drawn much attention lately. Existing approaches towards this task define uncertainty regions based on probable values per pixel, while ignoring spatial correlations within the image, resulting in an exaggerated volume of uncertainty. In this paper, we propose PUQ (Principal Uncertainty Quantification) – a novel definition and corresponding analysis of uncertainty regions that takes into account spatial relationships within the image, thus providing reduced volume regions. Using recent advancements in generative models, we derive uncertainty intervals around principal components of the empirical posterior distribution, forming an ambiguity region that guarantees the inclusion of true unseen values with a user-defined confidence probability. To improve computational efficiency and interpretability, we also guarantee the recovery of true unseen values using only a few principal directions, resulting in more informative uncertainty regions. Our approach is verified through experiments on image colorization, super-resolution, and inpainting; its effectiveness is shown through comparison to baseline methods, demonstrating significantly tighter uncertainty regions.

2023: GSURE-Based Diffusion Model Training with Corrupted Data
Abstract: Diffusion models have demonstrated impressive results in both data generation and downstream tasks such as inverse problems, text-based editing, classification, and more. However, training such models usually requires large amounts of clean signals which are often difficult or impossible to obtain. In this work, we propose a novel training technique for generative diffusion models based only on corrupted data. We introduce a loss function based on the Generalized Stein's Unbiased Risk Estimator (GSURE), and prove that under some conditions, it is equivalent to the training objective used in fully supervised diffusion models. We demonstrate our technique on face images as well as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), where the use of undersampled data significantly alleviates data collection costs. Our approach achieves generative performance comparable to its fully supervised counterpart without training on any clean signals. In addition, we deploy the resulting diffusion model in various downstream tasks beyond the degradation present in the training set, showcasing promising results.

2023: Colonoscopy Coverage Revisited: Identifying Scanning Gaps in Real-Time
Abstract: None

2023: Conformal Prediction Masks: Visualizing Uncertainty in Medical Imaging
Abstract: None

2023: Technical Design Report for the LUXE Experiment
Abstract: This Technical Design Report presents a detailed description of all aspects of the LUXE (Laser Und XFEL Experiment), an experiment that will combine the high-quality and high-energy electron beam of the European XFEL with a high-intensity laser, to explore the uncharted terrain of strong-field quantum electrodynamics characterised by both high energy and high intensity, reaching the Schwinger field and beyond. The further implications for the search of physics beyond the Standard Model are also discussed.

2023: Image Denoising: The Deep Learning Revolution and Beyond - A Survey Paper -
Abstract: Image denoising (removal of additive white Gaussian noise from an image) is one of the oldest and most studied problems in image processing. An extensive work over several decades has led to thousands of papers on this subject, and to many well-performing algorithms for this task. Indeed, 10 years ago, these achievements have led some researchers to suspect that"Denoising is Dead", in the sense that all that can be achieved in this domain has already been obtained. However, this turned out to be far from the truth, with the penetration of deep learning (DL) into image processing. The era of DL brought a revolution to image denoising, both by taking the lead in today's ability for noise removal in images, and by broadening the scope of denoising problems being treated. Our paper starts by describing this evolution, highlighting in particular the tension and synergy that exist between classical approaches and modern DL-based alternatives in design of image denoisers. The recent transitions in the field of image denoising go far beyond the ability to design better denoisers. In the 2nd part of this paper we focus on recently discovered abilities and prospects of image denoisers. We expose the possibility of using denoisers to serve other problems, such as regularizing general inverse problems and serving as the prime engine in diffusion-based image synthesis. We also unveil the idea that denoising and other inverse problems might not have a unique solution as common algorithms would have us believe. Instead, we describe constructive ways to produce randomized and diverse high quality results for inverse problems, all fueled by the progress that DL brought to image denoising. This survey paper aims to provide a broad view of the history of image denoising and closely related topics. Our aim is to give a better context to recent discoveries, and to the influence of DL in our domain.

2023: Nested Diffusion Processes for Anytime Image Generation
Abstract: Diffusion models are the current state-of-the-art in image generation, synthesizing high-quality images by breaking down the generation process into many fine-grained denoising steps. Despite their good performance, diffusion models are computationally expensive, requiring many neural function evaluations (NFEs). In this work, we propose an anytime diffusion-based method that can generate viable images when stopped at arbitrary times before completion. Using existing pretrained diffusion models, we show that the generation scheme can be recomposed as two nested diffusion processes, enabling fast iterative refinement of a generated image. In experiments on ImageNet and Stable Diffusion-based text-to-image generation, we show, both qualitatively and quantitatively, that our method’s intermediate generation quality greatly exceeds that of the original diffusion model, while the final generation result remains comparable. We illustrate the applicability of Nested Diffusion in several settings, including for solving inverse problems, and for rapid text-based content creation by allowing user intervention throughout the sampling process. 1

2023: Semi-supervised Quality Evaluation of Colonoscopy Procedures
Abstract: Colonoscopy is the standard of care technique for detecting and removing polyps for the prevention of colorectal cancer. Nevertheless, gastroenterologists (GI) routinely miss approximately 25% of polyps during colonoscopies. These misses are highly operator dependent, influenced by the physician skills, experience, vigilance, and fatigue. Standard quality metrics, such as Withdrawal Time or Cecal Intubation Rate, have been shown to be well correlated with Adenoma Detection Rate (ADR). However, those metrics are limited in their ability to assess the quality of a specific procedure, and they do not address quality aspects related to the style or technique of the examination. In this work we design novel online and offline quality metrics, based on visual appearance quality criteria learned by an ML model in an unsupervised way. Furthermore, we evaluate the likelihood of detecting an existing polyp as a function of procedure quality and use it to demonstrate high correlation of the proposed metric to polyp detection sensitivity. The proposed online quality metric can be used to provide real time quality feedback to the performing GI. By integrating the local metric over the withdrawal phase, we build a global, offline quality metric, which is shown to be highly correlated to the standard Polyp Per Colonoscopy (PPC) quality metric.

2023: Weakly-Supervised Representation Learning for Video Alignment and Analysis
Abstract: Many tasks in video analysis and understanding boil down to the need for frame-based feature learning, aiming to encapsulate the relevant visual content so as to enable simpler and easier subsequent processing. While supervised strategies for this learning task can be envisioned, self and weakly-supervised alternatives are preferred due to the difficulties in getting labeled data. This paper introduces LRProp – a novel weakly-supervised representation learning approach, with an emphasis on the application of temporal alignment between pairs of videos of the same action category. The proposed approach uses a transformer encoder for extracting frame-level features, and employs the DTW algorithm within the training iterations in order to identify the alignment path between video pairs. Through a process referred to as "pair-wise position propagation", the probability distributions of these correspondences per location are matched with the similarity of the frame-level features via KL-divergence minimization. The proposed algorithm uses also a regularized SoftDTW loss for better tuning the learned features. Our novel representation learning paradigm consistently outperforms the state of the art on temporal alignment tasks, establishing a new performance bar over several downstream video analysis applications.

2023: Deep Optimal Transport: A Practical Algorithm for Photo-realistic Image Restoration
Abstract: We propose an image restoration algorithm that can control the perceptual quality and/or the mean square error (MSE) of any pre-trained model, trading one over the other at test time. Our algorithm is few-shot: Given about a dozen images restored by the model, it can significantly improve the perceptual quality and/or the MSE of the model for newly restored images without further training. Our approach is motivated by a recent theoretical result that links between the minimum MSE (MMSE) predictor and the predictor that minimizes the MSE under a perfect perceptual quality constraint. Specifically, it has been shown that the latter can be obtained by optimally transporting the output of the former, such that its distribution matches the source data. Thus, to improve the perceptual quality of a predictor that was originally trained to minimize MSE, we approximate the optimal transport by a linear transformation in the latent space of a variational auto-encoder, which we compute in closed-form using empirical means and covariances. Going beyond the theory, we find that applying the same procedure on models that were initially trained to achieve high perceptual quality, typically improves their perceptual quality even further. And by interpolating the results with the original output of the model, we can improve their MSE on the expense of perceptual quality. We illustrate our method on a variety of degradations applied to general content images of arbitrary dimensions.

2023: NOVEL ONLINE AND OFFLINE COLONOSCOPY QUALITY METRICS BASED ON TUBENESS
Abstract: None

2022: Simultaneous Detection and Classification of Partially and Weakly Supervised Cells
Abstract: None

2022: Denoising Diffusion Restoration Models
Abstract: Many interesting tasks in image restoration can be cast as linear inverse problems. A recent family of approaches for solving these problems uses stochastic algorithms that sample from the posterior distribution of natural images given the measurements. However, efficient solutions often require problem-specific supervised training to model the posterior, whereas unsupervised methods that are not problem-specific typically rely on inefficient iterative methods. This work addresses these issues by introducing Denoising Diffusion Restoration Models (DDRM), an efficient, unsupervised posterior sampling method. Motivated by variational inference, DDRM takes advantage of a pre-trained denoising diffusion generative model for solving any linear inverse problem. We demonstrate DDRM's versatility on several image datasets for super-resolution, deblurring, inpainting, and colorization under various amounts of measurement noise. DDRM outperforms the current leading unsupervised methods on the diverse ImageNet dataset in reconstruction quality, perceptual quality, and runtime, being 5x faster than the nearest competitor. DDRM also generalizes well for natural images out of the distribution of the observed ImageNet training set.

2022: Do Perceptually Aligned Gradients Imply Robustness?
Abstract: Adversarially robust classifiers possess a trait that non-robust models do not -- Perceptually Aligned Gradients (PAG). Their gradients with respect to the input align well with human perception. Several works have identified PAG as a byproduct of robust training, but none have considered it as a standalone phenomenon nor studied its own implications. In this work, we focus on this trait and test whether \emph{Perceptually Aligned Gradients imply Robustness}. To this end, we develop a novel objective to directly promote PAG in training classifiers and examine whether models with such gradients are more robust to adversarial attacks. Extensive experiments on multiple datasets and architectures validate that models with aligned gradients exhibit significant robustness, exposing the surprising bidirectional connection between PAG and robustness. Lastly, we show that better gradient alignment leads to increased robustness and harness this observation to boost the robustness of existing adversarial training techniques.

2022: Complex-Valued Retrievals From Noisy Images Using Diffusion Models
Abstract: In diverse microscopy modalities, sensors measure only real-valued intensities. Additionally, the sensor readouts are affected by Poissonian-distributed photon noise. Traditional restoration algorithms typically aim to minimize the mean squared error (MSE) between the original and recovered images. This often leads to blurry outcomes with poor perceptual quality. Recently, deep diffusion models (DDMs) have proven to be highly capable of sampling images from the a-posteriori probability of the sought variables, resulting in visually pleasing high-quality images. These models have mostly been suggested for real-valued images suffering from Gaussian noise. In this study, we generalize annealed Langevin Dynamics, a type of DDM, to tackle the fundamental challenges in optical imaging of complex-valued objects (and real images) affected by Poisson noise. We apply our algorithm to various optical scenarios, such as Fourier Ptychography, Phase Retrieval, and Poisson denoising. Our algorithm is evaluated on simulations and biological empirical data.

2022: JPEG Artifact Correction using Denoising Diffusion Restoration Models
Abstract: Diffusion models can be used as learned priors for solving various inverse problems. However, most existing approaches are restricted to linear inverse problems, limiting their applicability to more general cases. In this paper, we build upon Denoising Diffusion Restoration Models (DDRM) and propose a method for solving some non-linear inverse problems. We leverage the pseudo-inverse operator used in DDRM and generalize this concept for other measurement operators, which allows us to use pre-trained unconditional diffusion models for applications such as JPEG artifact correction. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach across various quality factors, attaining performance levels that are on par with state-of-the-art methods trained specifically for the JPEG restoration task.

2022: Threat Model-Agnostic Adversarial Defense using Diffusion Models
Abstract: Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are highly sensitive to imperceptible malicious perturbations, known as adversarial attacks. Following the discovery of this vulnerability in real-world imaging and vision applications, the associated safety concerns have attracted vast research attention, and many defense techniques have been developed. Most of these defense methods rely on adversarial training (AT) -- training the classification network on images perturbed according to a specific threat model, which defines the magnitude of the allowed modification. Although AT leads to promising results, training on a specific threat model fails to generalize to other types of perturbations. A different approach utilizes a preprocessing step to remove the adversarial perturbation from the attacked image. In this work, we follow the latter path and aim to develop a technique that leads to robust classifiers across various realizations of threat models. To this end, we harness the recent advances in stochastic generative modeling, and means to leverage these for sampling from conditional distributions. Our defense relies on an addition of Gaussian i.i.d noise to the attacked image, followed by a pretrained diffusion process -- an architecture that performs a stochastic iterative process over a denoising network, yielding a high perceptual quality denoised outcome. The obtained robustness with this stochastic preprocessing step is validated through extensive experiments on the CIFAR-10 dataset, showing that our method outperforms the leading defense methods under various threat models.

2022: PatchCraft Self-Supervised Training for Correlated Image Denoising
Abstract: Supervised neural networks are known to achieve excellent results in various image restoration tasks. However, such training requires datasets composed of pairs of corrupted images and their corresponding ground truth targets. Unfortunately, such data is not available in many applications. For the task of image denoising in which the noise statistics is unknown, several self-supervised training methods have been proposed for overcoming this difficulty. Some of these require knowledge of the noise model, while others assume that the contaminating noise is uncorrelated, both assumptions are too limiting for many practical needs. This work proposes a novel self-supervised training technique suitable for the removal of unknown correlated noise. The proposed approach neither requires knowledge of the noise model nor access to ground truth targets. The input to our algorithm consists of easily captured bursts of noisy shots. Our algorithm constructs artificial patch-craft images from these bursts by patch matching and stitching, and the obtained crafted images are used as targets for the training. Our method does not require registration of the images within the burst. We evaluate the proposed framework through extensive experiments with synthetic and real image noise.

