Recent papers for Mirela Ben-Chen:

2024: MDNF: Multi-Diffusion-Nets for Neural Fields on Meshes
Abstract: We propose a novel framework for representing neural fields on triangle meshes that is multi-resolution across both spatial and frequency domains. Inspired by the Neural Fourier Filter Bank (NFFB), our architecture decomposes the spatial and frequency domains by associating finer spatial resolution levels with higher frequency bands, while coarser resolutions are mapped to lower frequencies. To achieve geometry-aware spatial decomposition we leverage multiple DiffusionNet components, each associated with a different spatial resolution level. Subsequently, we apply a Fourier feature mapping to encourage finer resolution levels to be associated with higher frequencies. The final signal is composed in a wavelet-inspired manner using a sine-activated MLP, aggregating higher-frequency signals on top of lower-frequency ones. Our architecture attains high accuracy in learning complex neural fields and is robust to discontinuities, exponential scale variations of the target field, and mesh modification. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through its application to diverse neural fields, such as synthetic RGB functions, UV texture coordinates, and vertex normals, illustrating different challenges. To validate our method, we compare its performance against two alternatives, showcasing the advantages of our multi-resolution architecture.

2023: An Elastic Basis for Spectral Shape Correspondence
Abstract: Finding correspondences between shapes is a central task in geometry processing with applications such as texture or deformation transfer and shape interpolation. We develop a spectral method for finding correspondences between non-isometric shapes that aligns extrinsic features. For this, we propose a novel crease aware spectral basis, that is derived from the Hessian of an elastic thin shell energy. We incorporate this basis in a functional map framework and demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for mapping non-isometric shapes such that prominent features are put in correspondence. Finally, we describe the necessary adaptations to the functional map framework for working with non-orthogonal basis functions, thus considerably widening the scope of future uses of spectral shape correspondence.

2023: BPM: Blended Piecewise Möbius Maps
Abstract: We propose a novel Möbius interpolator that takes as an input a discrete map between the vertices of two planar triangle meshes, and outputs a continuous map on the input domain. The output map interpolates the discrete map, is continuous between triangles, and has low quasi‐conformal distortion when the input map is discrete conformal. Our map leads to considerably smoother texture transfer compared to the alternatives, even on very coarse triangulations. Furthermore, our approach has a closed‐form expression, is local, applicable to any discrete map, and leads to smooth results even for extreme deformations. Finally, by working with local intrinsic coordinates, our approach is easily generalizable to discrete maps between a surface triangle mesh and a planar mesh, i.e., a planar parameterization. We compare our method with existing approaches, and demonstrate better texture transfer results, and lower quasi‐conformal errors.

2023: A Convex Optimization Framework for Regularized Geodesic Distances
Abstract: We propose a general convex optimization problem for computing regularized geodesic distances. We show that under mild conditions on the regularizer the problem is well posed. We propose three different regularizers and provide analytical solutions in special cases, as well as corresponding efficient optimization algorithms. Additionally, we show how to generalize the approach to the all pairs case by formulating the problem on the product manifold, which leads to symmetric distances. Our regularized distances compare favorably to existing methods, in terms of robustness and ease of calibration.

2022: Programmable Eclairs
Abstract: None

2022: NozMod: Nozzle Modification for Efficient FDM 3D Printing
Abstract: 3D printing is based on layered manufacturing, where the layers are printed consecutively in increasing height order. In Fused Depositing Modeling (FDM), the printing head may travel without extruding material between separated “islands” of the sliced layers. These travel movements increase the printing time and reduce the quality of the 3D printed part. We present an extended nozzle modification, which can be applied to off-the-shelf FDM printers, and a corresponding toolpath generation algorithm. Together, these dramatically reduce the amount of travel movement, thus improving the printing time and quality of the results. The extended nozzle allows us to print the sliced layers out of order, where part of a lower layer might be printed after a higher layer was already printed. Our toolpath generation algorithm takes advantage of this capability and generates a toolpath which maximizes the number of consecutive layers printed within the same “island” without requiring any travel movement. In addition, the algorithm optimizes the order of the printed islands, and guarantees that the generated toolpath will not cause collisions between the extended nozzle and the model. We demonstrate our approach on a collection of varied models, and show that we considerably reduce the required travel, and improve the printing time and quality compared to standard layer-by-layer printing.

2022: AmiGo: Computational Design of Amigurumi Crochet Patterns
Abstract: We propose an approach for generating crochet instructions (patterns) from an input 3D model. We focus on Amigurumi, which are knitted stuffed toys. Given a closed triangle mesh, and a single point specified by the user, we generate crochet instructions, which when knitted and stuffed result in a toy similar to the input geometry. Our approach relies on constructing the geometry and connectivity of a Crochet Graph, which is then translated into a crochet pattern. We segment the shape automatically into chrochetable components, which are connected using the join-as-you-go method, requiring no additional sewing. We demonstrate that our method is applicable to a large variety of shapes and geometries, and yields easily crochetable patterns.

2022: VEMPIC
Abstract: The comprehensive visual modeling of fluid motion has historically been a challenging task, due in no small part to the difficulties inherent in geometries that are non-manifold, open, or thin. Modern geometric cut-cell mesh generators have been shown to produce, both robustly and quickly, workable volumetric elements in the presence of these problematic geometries, and the resulting volumetric representation would seem to offer an ideal infrastructure with which to perform fluid simulations. However, cut-cell mesh elements are general polyhedra that often contain holes and are non-convex; it is therefore difficult to construct the explicit function spaces required to employ standard functional discretizations, such as the Finite Element Method. The Virtual Element Method (VEM) has recently emerged as a functional discretization that successfully operates with complex polyhedral elements through a weak formulation of its function spaces. We present a novel cut-cell fluid simulation framework that exactly represents boundary geometry during the simulation. Our approach enables, for the first time, detailed fluid simulation with "in-the-wild" obstacles, including ones that contain non-manifold parts, self-intersections, and extremely thin features. Our key technical contribution is the generalization of the Particle-In-Cell fluid simulation methodology to arbitrary polyhedra using VEM. Coupled with a robust cut-cell generation scheme, this produces a fluid simulation algorithm that can operate on previously infeasible geometries without requiring any additional mesh modification or repair.

2021: PH-CPF
Abstract: We present a new approach for computing planar hexagonal meshes that approximate a given surface, represented as a triangle mesh. Our method is based on two novel technical contributions. First, we introduce Coordinate Power Fields, which are a pair of tangent vector fields on the surface that fulfill a certain continuity constraint. We prove that the fulfillment of this constraint guarantees the existence of a seamless parameterization with quantized rotational jumps, which we then use to regularly remesh the surface. We additionally propose an optimization framework for finding Coordinate Power Fields, which also fulfill additional constraints, such as alignment, sizing and bijectivity. Second, we build upon this framework to address a challenging meshing problem: planar hexagonal meshing. To this end, we suggest a combination of conjugacy, scaling and alignment constraints, which together lead to planarizable hexagons. We demonstrate our approach on a variety of surfaces, automatically generating planar hexagonal meshes on complicated meshes, which were not achievable with existing methods.

2021: A Differential Geometry Perspective on Orthogonal Recurrent Models
Abstract: Recently, orthogonal recurrent neural networks (RNNs) have emerged as state-of-the-art models for learning long-term dependencies. This class of models mitigates the exploding and vanishing gradients problem by design. In this work, we employ tools and insights from differential geometry to offer a novel perspective on orthogonal RNNs. We show that orthogonal RNNs may be viewed as optimizing in the space of divergence-free vector fields. Specifically, based on a well-known result in differential geometry that relates vector fields and linear operators, we prove that every divergence-free vector field is related to a skew-symmetric matrix. Motivated by this observation, we study a new recurrent model, which spans the entire space of vector fields. Our method parameterizes vector fields via the directional derivatives of scalar functions. This requires the construction of latent inner product, gradient, and divergence operators. In comparison to state-of-the-art orthogonal RNNs, our approach achieves comparable or better results on a variety of benchmark tasks.

2021: Surface multigrid via intrinsic prolongation
Abstract: This paper introduces a novel geometric multigrid solver for unstructured curved surfaces. Multigrid methods are highly efficient iterative methods for solving systems of linear equations. Despite the success in solving problems defined on structured domains, generalizing multigrid to unstructured curved domains remains a challenging problem. The critical missing ingredient is a prolongation operator to transfer functions across different multigrid levels. We propose a novel method for computing the prolongation for triangulated surfaces based on intrinsic geometry, enabling an efficient geometric multigrid solver for curved surfaces. Our surface multigrid solver achieves better convergence than existing multigrid methods. Compared to direct solvers, our solver is orders of magnitude faster. We evaluate our method on many geometry processing applications and a wide variety of complex shapes with and without boundaries. By simply replacing the direct solver, we upgrade existing algorithms to interactive frame rates, and shift the computational bottleneck away from solving linear systems.

2020: Robust Shape Collection Matching and Correspondence from Shape Differences
Abstract: We propose a method to automatically match two shape collections with a similar shape space structure, e.g. two characters in similar poses, and compute the inter‐maps between the collections. Given the intra‐maps in each collection, we extract the corresponding shape difference operators, and use them to construct an embedding of the shape space of each collection. We then align the two shape spaces, and use the knowledge gained from the alignment to compute the inter‐maps. Unlike existing approaches for collection alignment, our method is applicable to small and large collections alike, and requires no parameter tuning. Furthermore, unlike most approaches for non‐isometric correspondence, our method uses solely the variation within the collection to extract the inter‐maps, and therefore does not require landmarks, descriptors or any additional input. We demonstrate that we achieve high matching accuracy rates, and compute high quality maps on non‐isometric shapes, which compare favorably with automatic state‐of‐the‐art methods for non‐isometric shape correspondence.

2019: A Genetic Algorithm for Fully Automatic Non-Isometric Shape Matching
Abstract: Automatically computing shape correspondence is a difficult problem, especially when the shapes are significantly different. In this paper we suggest a fully automatic method for shape correspondence, that is suitable for non isometric shapes and shapes of different topology. We tackle the combinatorial task of putting in correspondence two sparse sets of landmarks using a genetic algorithm. Our main observation is that optimizing an objective based on an induced dense functional correspondence, combined with geometric genetic operators, is highly effective for non isometric shape matching. The output of the genetic algorithm is a sparse landmark correspondence, as well as a corresponding functional map. Finally, an accurate pointwise map is extracted using existing semi-automatic methods. Our method is general, widely applicable, and outperforms state of the art methods for automatic shape correspondence both quantitatively and qualitatively.

2019: Hierarchical Functional Maps between Subdivision Surfaces
Abstract: We propose a novel approach for computing correspondences between subdivision surfaces with different control polygons. Our main observation is that the multi‐resolution spectral basis functions that are open used for computing a functional correspondence can be compactly represented on subdivision surfaces, and therefore can be efficiently computed. Furthermore, the reconstruction of a pointwise map from a functional correspondence also greatly benefits from the subdivision structure. Leveraging these observations, we suggest a hierarchical pipeline for functional map inference, allowing us to compute correspondences between surfaces at fine subdivision levels, with hundreds of thousands of polygons, an order of magnitude faster than existing correspondence methods. We demonstrate the applicability of our results by transferring high‐resolution sculpting displacement maps and textures between subdivision models.

2019: Consistent functional cross field design for mesh quadrangulation
Abstract: HAL is a multi-disciplinary open access archive for the deposit and dissemination of scientific research documents, whether they are published or not. The documents may come from teaching and research institutions in France or abroad, or from public or private research centers. L’archive ouverte pluridisciplinaire HAL, est destinée au dépôt et à la diffusion de documents scientifiques de niveau recherche, publiés ou non, émanant des établissements d’enseignement et de recherche français ou étrangers, des laboratoires publics ou privés. Consistent functional cross field design for mesh quadrangulation Omri Azencot, Etienne Corman, Mirela Ben-Chen, Maks Ovsjanikov

2019: Generalized volumetric foliation from inverted viscous flow
Abstract: None

2019: Operator-based representations of discrete tangent vector fields
Abstract: None

2019: Chebyshev nets from commuting PolyVector fields
Abstract: We propose a method for computing global Chebyshev nets on triangular meshes. We formulate the corresponding global parameterization problem in terms of commuting PolyVector fields, and design an efficient optimization method to solve it. We compute, for the first time, Chebyshev nets with automatically-placed singularities, and demonstrate the realizability of our approach using real material.

2019: Elastic Correspondence between Triangle Meshes
Abstract: We propose a novel approach for shape matching between triangular meshes that, in contrast to existing methods, can match crease features. Our approach is based on a hybrid optimization scheme, that solves simultaneously for an elastic deformation of the source and its projection on the target. The elastic energy we minimize is invariant to rigid body motions, and its non‐linear membrane energy component favors locally injective maps. Symmetrizing this model enables feature aligned correspondences even for non‐isometric meshes. We demonstrate the advantage of our approach over state of the art methods on isometric and non‐isometric datasets, where we improve the geodesic distance from the ground truth, the conformal and area distortions, and the mismatch of the mean curvature functions. Finally, we show that our computed maps are applicable for surface interpolation, consistent cross‐field computation, and consistent quadrangular remeshing of a set of shapes.

2019: ENIGMA
Abstract: In this paper we propose a fully automatic method for shape correspondence that is widely applicable, and especially effective for non isometric shapes and shapes of different topology. We observe that fully-automatic shape correspondence can be decomposed as a hybrid discrete/continuous optimization problem, and we find the best sparse landmark correspondence, whose sparse-to-dense extension minimizes a local metric distortion. To tackle the combinatorial task of landmark correspondence we use an evolutionary genetic algorithm, where the local distortion of the sparse-to-dense extension is used as the objective function. We design novel geometrically guided genetic operators, which, when combined with our objective, are highly effective for non isometric shape matching. Our method outperforms state of the art methods for automatic shape correspondence both quantitatively and qualitatively on challenging datasets.

