Recent papers for Moshe Tennenholtz:

2024: Receiver-Oriented Cheap Talk Design
Abstract: This paper considers the dynamics of cheap talk interactions between a sender and receiver, departing from conventional models by focusing on the receiver's perspective. We study two models, one with transparent motives and another one in which the receiver can \emph{filter} the information that is accessible by the sender. We give a geometric characterization of the best receiver equilibrium under transparent motives and prove that the receiver does not benefit from filtering information in this case. However, in general, we show that the receiver can strictly benefit from filtering and provide efficient algorithms for computing optimal equilibria. This innovative analysis aligns with user-based platforms where receivers (users) control information accessible to senders (sellers). Our findings provide insights into communication dynamics, leveling the sender's inherent advantage, and offering strategic interaction predictions.

2024: Competitive Retrieval: Going Beyond the Single Query
Abstract: Previous work on the competitive retrieval setting focused on a single-query setting: document authors manipulate their documents so as to improve their future ranking for a given query. We study a competitive setting where authors opt to improve their document's ranking for multiple queries. We use game theoretic analysis to prove that equilibrium does not necessarily exist. We then empirically show that it is more difficult for authors to improve their documents' rankings for multiple queries with a neural ranker than with a state-of-the-art feature-based ranker. We also present an effective approach for predicting the document most highly ranked in the next induced ranking.

2024: Making a Nash Equilibrium Resilient to Coalitions
Abstract: None

2024: Sponsored Question Answering
Abstract: The potential move from search to question answering (QA) ignited the question of how should the move from sponsored search to sponsored QA look like. We present the first formal analysis of a sponsored QA platform. The platform fuses an organic answer to a question with an ad to produce a so called {\em sponsored answer}. Advertisers then bid on their sponsored answers. Inspired by Generalized Second Price Auctions (GSPs), the QA platform selects the winning advertiser, sets the payment she pays, and shows the user the sponsored answer. We prove an array of results. For example, advertisers are incentivized to be truthful in their bids; i.e., set them to their true value of the sponsored answer. The resultant setting is stable with properties of VCG auctions.

2024: Ranking-Incentivized Document Manipulations for Multiple Queries
Abstract: In competitive retrieval settings, document publishers (authors) modify their documents in response to induced rankings so as to potentially improve their future rankings. Previous work has focused on analyzing ranking-incentivized document modifications for a single query . We present a novel theoretical and empirical study of document modification strategies applied for potentially improved ranking for multiple queries ; e.g., those representing the same information need. Using game theoretic analysis, we show that in contrast to the single-query setting, an equilibrium does not necessarily exist; we provide full characterization of when it does for a basic family of ranking functions. We empirically study document modification strategies in the multiple-queries setting by organizing ranking competitions. In contrast to previous ranking competitions devised for the single-query setting, we also used a neural ranker and allowed in some competitions the use of generative AI tools to modify documents. We found that publishers tend to mimic content from documents highly ranked in the past, as in the single-query setting, although this was a somewhat less emphasized trend when generative AI tools were allowed. We also found that it was much more difficult with neural rankers to promote a document to the highest rank simultaneously for multiple queries than it was with a feature-based learning-to-rank method. In addition, we demonstrate the merits of using information induced from multiple queries to predict which document might be the highest ranked in the next ranking for a given query.

2024: Robust Price Discrimination
Abstract: We consider a model of third-degree price discrimination where the seller's product valuation is unknown to the market designer, who aims to maximize buyer surplus by revealing buyer valuation information. Our main result shows that the regret is bounded by a $\frac{1}{e}$-fraction of the optimal buyer surplus when the seller has zero valuation for the product. This bound is attained by randomly drawing a seller valuation and applying the segmentation of Bergemann et al. (2015) with respect to the drawn valuation. We show that this bound is tight in the case of binary buyer valuation.

2023: Reputation-based Persuasion Platforms
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a two-stage Bayesian persuasion model in which a third-party platform controls the information available to the sender about users' preferences. We aim to characterize the optimal information disclosure policy of the platform, which maximizes average user utility, under the assumption that the sender also follows its own optimal policy. We show that this problem can be reduced to a model of market segmentation, in which probabilities are mapped into valuations. We then introduce a repeated variation of the persuasion platform problem in which myopic users arrive sequentially. In this setting, the platform controls the sender's information about users and maintains a reputation for the sender, punishing it if it fails to act truthfully on a certain subset of signals. We provide a characterization of the optimal platform policy in the reputation-based setting, which is then used to simplify the optimization problem of the platform.

2023: Resilient Information Aggregation
Abstract: In an information aggregation game, a set of senders interact with a receiver through a mediator. Each sender observes the state of the world and communicates a message to the mediator, who recommends an action to the receiver based on the messages received. The payoff of the senders and of the receiver depend on both the state of the world and the action selected by the receiver. This setting extends the celebrated cheap talk model in two aspects: there are many senders (as opposed to just one) and there is a mediator. From a practical perspective, this setting captures platforms in which strategic experts advice is aggregated in service of action recommendations to the user. We aim at finding an optimal mediator/platform that maximizes the users' welfare given highly resilient incentive compatibility requirements on the equilibrium selected: we want the platform to be incentive compatible for the receiver/user when selecting the recommended action, and we want it to be resilient against group deviations by the senders/experts. We provide highly positive answers to this challenge, manifested through efficient algorithms.

2023: Mediated Cheap Talk Design
Abstract: We study an information design problem with two informed senders and a receiver in which, in contrast to traditional Bayesian persuasion settings, senders do not have commitment power. In our setting, a trusted mediator/platform gathers data from the senders and recommends the receiver which action to play. We characterize the set of feasible action distributions that can be obtained in equilibrium, and provide an O(n log n) algorithm (where n is the number of states) that computes the optimal equilibrium for the senders. Additionally, we show that the optimal equilibrium for the receiver can be obtained by a simple revelation mechanism.

2023: Strengthening Nash Equilibria
Abstract: Nash equilibrium is often heralded as a guiding principle for rational decision-making in strategic interactions. However, it is well-known that Nash equilibrium sometimes fails as a reliable predictor of outcomes, with two of the most notable issues being the fact that it is not resilient to collusion and that there may be multiple Nash equilibria in a single game. In this paper, we show that a mechanism designer can get around these two issues for free by expanding the action sets of the original game. More precisely, given a normal-form or Bayesian game $\Gamma$ and a Nash equilibrium $\vec{\sigma}$ in $\Gamma$, a mechanism designer can construct a new game $\Gamma^{\vec{\sigma}}$ by expanding the action set of each player and defining appropriate utilities in the action profiles that were not already in the original game. We show that the designer can construct $\Gamma^{\vec{\sigma}}$ in such a way that (a) $\vec{\sigma}$ is a semi-strong Nash equilibrium of $\Gamma^{\vec{\sigma}}$, and (b) $\vec{\sigma}$ Pareto-dominates or quasi Pareto-dominates all other Nash equilibria of $\Gamma^{\vec{\sigma}}$.

2023: Content-Based Relevance Estimation in Retrieval Settings with Ranking-Incentivized Document Manipulations
Abstract: In retrieval settings such as the Web, many document authors are ranking incentivized: they opt to have their documents highly ranked for queries of interest. Consequently, they often respond to rankings by modifying their documents. These modifications can hurt retrieval effectiveness even if the resultant documents are of high quality. We present novel content-based relevance estimates which are "ranking-incentives aware"; that is, the underlying assumption is that content can be the result of ranking incentives rather than of pure authorship considerations. The suggested estimates are based on inducing information from past dynamics of the document corpus. Empirical evaluation attests to the clear merits of our most effective methods. For example, they substantially outperform state-of-the-art approaches that were not designed to address ranking-incentivized document manipulations.

2023: Human Choice Prediction in Language-based Persuasion Games: Simulation-based Off-Policy Evaluation
Abstract: Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have spurred interest in designing LLM-based agents for tasks that involve interaction with human and artificial agents. This paper addresses a key aspect in the design of such agents: Predicting human decision in off-policy evaluation (OPE), focusing on language-based persuasion games, where the agent's goal is to influence its partner's decisions through verbal messages. Using a dedicated application, we collected a dataset of 87K decisions from humans playing a repeated decision-making game with artificial agents. Our approach involves training a model on human interactions with one agents subset to predict decisions when interacting with another. To enhance off-policy performance, we propose a simulation technique involving interactions across the entire agent space and simulated decision makers. Our learning strategy yields significant OPE gains, e.g., improving prediction accuracy in the top 15% challenging cases by 7.1%. Our code and the large dataset we collected and generated are submitted as supplementary material and publicly available in our GitHub repository: https://github.com/eilamshapira/HumanChoicePrediction

2023: The Search for Stability: Learning Dynamics of Strategic Publishers with Initial Documents
Abstract: We study a game-theoretic information retrieval model in which strategic publishers aim to maximize their chances of being ranked first by the search engine while maintaining the integrity of their original documents. We show that the commonly used Probability Ranking Principle (PRP) ranking scheme results in an unstable environment where games often fail to reach pure Nash equilibrium. We propose two families of ranking functions that do not adhere to the PRP principle. We provide both theoretical and empirical evidence that these methods lead to a stable search ecosystem, by providing positive results on the learning dynamics convergence. We also define the publishers' and users' welfare, demonstrate a possible publisher-user trade-off, and provide means for a search system designer to control it. Finally, we show how instability harms long-term users' welfare.

2023: Selling Data to a Competitor
Abstract: We study the costs and benefits of selling data to a competitor. Although selling all consumers' data may decrease total firm profits, there exist other selling mechanisms -- in which only some consumers' data is sold -- that render both firms better off. We identify the profit-maximizing mechanism, and show that the benefit to firms comes at a cost to consumers. We then construct Pareto-improving mechanisms, in which each consumers' welfare, as well as both firms' profits, increase. Finally, we show that consumer opt-in can serve as an instrument to induce firms to choose a Pareto-improving mechanism over a profit-maximizing one.

2023: The Value of Mediation in Long Cheap Talk
Abstract: In this paper, we study an extension of the classic long cheap talk equilibrium introduced by Aumann and Hart~\citeN{aumann-hart-03}, and ask how much can the players benefit from having a trusted mediator compared with the standard unmediated model. We focus on a setting where a fully informed sender without commitment power must disclose its information to influence the behavior of a self-interested receiver. We show that, in the case of binary actions, even though a mediator does not help neither the sender nor the receiver directly, it may still allow improving the payoff of an external decision-maker whose utility is affected by the realized state and the receiver's action. Moreover, we show that if there are more than two actions, there exist games in which both the sender and the receiver simultaneously benefit from mediation.

2022: Competitive Search
Abstract: The Web is a canonical example of a competitive search setting that includes document authors with ranking incentives: their goal is to promote their documents in rankings induced for queries. The incentives affect some of the corpus dynamics as the authors respond to rankings by applying strategic document manipulations. This well known reality has deep consequences that go well beyond the need to fight spam. As a case in point, researchers showed using game theoretic analysis that the probability ranking principle is not optimal in competitive retrieval settings; specifically, it leads to reduced topical diversity in the corpus. We provide a broad perspective on recent work on competitive retrieval settings, argue that this work is the tip of the iceberg, and pose a suite of novel research directions; for example, a general game theoretic framework for competitive search, methods of learning-to-rank that account for post-ranking effects, approaches to automatic document manipulation, addressing societal aspects and evaluation.

2022: Budget-Constrained Reinforcement of Ranked Objects
Abstract: . Commercial entries, such as hotels, are ranked according to score by a search engine or recommendation system, and the score of each can be improved upon by making a targeted investment, e.g., advertising. We study the problem of how a principal, who owns or supports a set of entries, can optimally allocate a budget to maximize their ranking. Representing the set of ranked scores as a probability distribution over scores, we treat this question as a game between distributions. We show that, in the general case, the best ranking is achieved by equalizing the scores of several disjoint score ranges. We show that there is a unique optimal reinforcement strategy, and provide an eﬃcient algorithm implementing it.

2022: Data Curation from Privacy-Aware Agents
Abstract: A data curator would like to collect data from privacy-aware agents. The collected data will be used for the benefit of all agents. Can the curator incentivize the agents to share their data truthfully? Can he guarantee that truthful sharing will be the unique equilibrium? Can he provide some stability guarantees on such equilibrium? We study necessary and sufficient conditions for these questions to be answered positively and complement these results with corresponding data collection protocols for the curator. Our results account for a broad interpretation of the notion of privacy awareness.

2022: Mediated Cheap Talk Design (with proofs)
Abstract: We study an information design problem with two informed senders and a receiver in which, in contrast to traditional Bayesian persuasion settings, senders do not have commit- ment power. In our setting, a trusted mediator/platform gath-ers data from the senders and recommends the receiver which action to play. We characterize the set of implementable action distributions that can be obtained in equilibrium, and provide an O ( n log n ) algorithm (where n is the number of states) that computes the optimal equilibrium for the senders. Additionally, we show that the optimal equilibrium for the receiver can be obtained by a simple revelation mechanism.

2022: Pareto-Improving Data-Sharing✱
Abstract: We study the effects of data sharing between firms on prices, profits, and consumer welfare. Although indiscriminate sharing of consumer data decreases firm profits due to the subsequent increase in competition, selective sharing can be beneficial. We show that there are data-sharing mechanisms that are strictly Pareto-improving, simultaneously increasing firm profits and consumer welfare. Within the class of Pareto-improving mechanisms, we identify one that maximizes firm profits and one that maximizes consumer welfare.

