Recent papers for Nazarathy Moshe:

2023: 2Serial-2Parallel Optical DAC for High-Resolution Photonic-Efficient Energy-Efficient 4|16|64|256 QAM
Abstract: Next upgrade to QAM256 poses formidable barriers in terms of attainable performance and energy-efficiency of DAC driver + MZM based Transmitters (Tx). A promising alternative, potentially changing the ‘rules of the game’ is optical DACs (oDAC). In previous work, we proposed a PAM4-driven optical Tx generating up to 256QAM. Here we introduce a novel oDAC parallelizing a pair of optimized 2-segment MZMs, remarkably fed by 4 uncoupled NRZ signals. Based on a pair of IQ-nested new oDACs, the resulting DAC-less QAM Tx is fed by 8 uncoupled NRZ drivers. The energy efficiency, photonic efficiency and resolution of the flexible oDAC and QAM Tx are at their utmost.

2023: Optical DACs for Ultra-High-Speed Green Photonic Interconnects
Abstract: We review the principles of operation and latest conceptual advances in optical DACs for next-gen Ultra-High-Speed (UHS) photonic interconnects. Optical DACs ‘done right’ enable UHS optical transmitters at high-resolution, high photonic-efficiency and high energy-efficiency. An oDAC is defined as a Transmit-Optical-Sub-Assemby (TOSA) unit generating a constellation of C=2B levels, comprising a collection of B modulators with static or slowly-adjustable ‘glue optics’; the admissible drives of the B modulators are specified as either two-level (NRZ, OOK) or 4-level (unipolar or bipolar PAM4); neither higher-order electrical driving-DACs, nor power-hungry digital encoders at baudrate are allowed.We model and compare serial (segmented-MZM) vs. multi-parallel oDAC architectures and their win-win combination. We present analytical models of serial and multi-parallel oDACs based on the code matrix concept. We introduce suitable metrics for oDACs characterisation. A ‘perfect’ oDAC features a max-full-scale (inherently optical-loss-free) uniform constellation (having equispaced levels), minimizing BER. We prove that for coherent (COH) detection links it is possible to design ‘perfect’ oDACs in the optical-field domain, but for a direct-detection link there exists no C>4 ‘perfect’ optical-power domain oDAC. We show how oDACs are assembled as building blocks in complete IQXY optical transmitters for coherent transmission links, at unprecedented performance, energy-efficiencies, reconfigurability.

2022: Energy-Efficient Reconfigurable 4|16|64|256-QAM Transmitter Based on PAM2|4-Driven Optical DACs
Abstract: We propose, model and optimize an optical Digital to Analog Converter (oDAC) significantly improving the tradeoffs between spectral-, energy- and footprint- efficiencies, based on modifying our recently introduced multi-parallel oDAC, by adopting Multi-Level-Driven modulation for the individual Mach-Zehnder Modulators (MZM) in the parallelized paths. The most compact instance of this improved oDAC structure coherently combines two parallel optical paths, each comprising an MZM electrically driven by either PAM2 or PAM4. This oDAC is flexibly reprogrammable to generate ultra-high-speed, energy-efficient, optical bipolar PAM-<inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$C$ </tex-math></inline-formula> with <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$C=2$ </tex-math></inline-formula>,4,8,16. Two such oDAC units are IQ-nested to generate 4|16|64|256-QAM constellations.

2022: Controller for all-optical low power/cost coherent receiver used in short-reach systems
Abstract: The ICT industry faces huge challenges in the following years in terms of the bit-rate scalability and energy-efficiency of current transceiver solutions for the next-gen intra-datacenter, 5G fronthaul and access networks, rapidly extending their deployment. A key bottleneck is the cost and power consumption of available optical interconnects. To tackle these issues, we investigate the advancement of previously proposed all-optical solutions to be implemented in all-optical transceivers, discarding most of the power-hungry and costly DSP currently utilized in coherent receivers. Examining the optical link requirements for the targeted access/DCI networks, we present the design steps for a novel controller for all-optical polarization demultiplexing with a low-power footprint. We develop algorithms for polarization tracking in optical signal transmission through the fiber-optic link. In addition, we also present alternative solutions for the crucial function of carrier recovery in coherent receivers based on optical phase-locked loops.

2021: Accurate Power-Efficient Format-Scalable Multi-Parallel Optical Digital-to-Analogue Conversion
Abstract: In optical transmitters generating multi-level constellations, optical modulators are preceded by Electronic Digital-to-Analog-Converters (eDAC). It is advantageous to use eDAC-free Optical Analog to Digital Converters (oDAC) to directly convert digital bitstreams into multilevel PAM/QAM optical signals. State-of-the-art oDACs are based on Segmented Mach-Zehnder-Modulators (SEMZM) using multiple modulation segments strung along the MZM waveguides to serially accumulate binary-modulated optical phases. Here we aim to assess performance limits of the Serial oDACs (SEMZM) and introduce an alternative improved Multi-Parallel oDAC (MPoDAC) architecture, in particular based on arraying multiple binary-driven MZMs in parallel: Multi-parallel MZM (MPMZM) oDAC. We develop generic methodologies of oDAC specification and optimization encompassing both SEMZM and MPMZM options in Direct-Detection (DD) and Coherent-Detection (COH) implementations. We quantify and compare intrinsic performance limits of the various serial/parallel DD/COH subclasses for general constellation orders, comparing with the scant prior-work on the multi-parallel option. A key finding: COH-MPMZM is the only class synthesizing ‘perfect’ (equi-spaced max-full-scale) constellations while maximizing energy-efficiency-SEMZM/MPMZM for DD are less accurate when maximal energy-efficiency is required. In particular, we introduce multiple variants of PAM4|8 DD and QAM16|64 COH MPMZMs, working out their accuracy vs. energy-efficiency-and-complexity tradeoffs, establishing their format-reconfigurability (format-flexible switching of constellation order and/or DD/COH).

2021: ‘Perfect’ PAM4 Serial Digital-Optical Conversion
Abstract: We develop a ‘perfect’ design for PAM4 Segmented Mach-Zehnder Modulators (SEMZM), featuring a fully linear (uniform) optical DAC (oDAC) staircase (i.e., having equi-spaced PAM4 levels) and no intrinsic modulation loss (the qualifier ‘perfect’ pertains to ideal conditions, barring optical excess losses and other impairments). This is achieved by leveraging our recently introduced maximin optimization strategy, enabling to locate the hitherto unknown optimal operating point in the serial oDAC parameters space, gaining ~7 dB relative to conventional PAM4 designs (typically based on a pair of segment electrodes in 2:1 lengths ratio and using 3 dB modulation backoff in order to compensate for degradation in oDAC linearity). The same photonic design may be reused to generate DAC-free coherent PAM4 (bipolar symmetric field-domain equi-spaced max-full-scale constellations), for efficient I/Q tributaries of 16QAM.

2019: Low-Cost/Power Coherent Transceivers for Intra-Datacenter Interconnections and 5G Fronthaul Links
Abstract: Currently there are multiple approaches considered by the optical communications community in order to scale-up the transceiver bit-rates beyond the Tb/s mark. Those include implementations based on higher baud-rates, advanced modulation formats and some form of parallelism, either by using Parallel Fibers Multiplexing (PSM) or Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM), or both. However, the cost and power consumption of the resulting transceivers, normalized per Gb/s, do not drop linearly as the number of parallel lanes (utilizing either spatial or spectral resources) increase (due to the extra complexities associated with multiplexing/demultiplexing and wavelength control). The cost and power consumption targets for the associated transceivers are particularly stringent for the case of intra-datacenters connectivity and 5G fronthaul links, unlike the cases of inter-datacenter connectivity and terrestrial/submarine networks. For intra-datacenter and 5G fronthaul interconnections, in order to reduce the cost and power per bit, it would be ideal to develop solutions operating on a single I/O fibre and based on single-wavelength implementations, thus meeting the reach and bit-rate requirements using a single transceiver at each end.Coherent detection could in principle offer a nice solution in that direction, enabling to scale the transceivers towards higher capacities; however, the cost and power consumption issues stemming mainly from the use of ultra-high-speed DSP chips and analogue to digital converters (ADCs), which consume over 8 W, even at 7 nm technology, must be addressed. Thus, Coherent transceivers that could circumvent the use of DSP chips, as well as eliminate DAC/ADCs, have high future potential, even though, at the moment, they seem inferior in terms of transmission performance to the existing solutions (utilizing high-speed electronics DACs/ADCs and DCP chips). However, the performance requirements for intra-datacenter and 5G fronthaul transceivers are not very stringent, as compared to the case of longer-reach transceivers. This implies that some of the simpler transceiver designs (bypassing costly and power-hungry high-speed digital electronic circuits) could find their way into commercialization for intra-DCI and 5G fronthaul networks. In our presentation, we survey the different options proposed in the literature for DSP-chip-less coherent transceivers and then we focus on the implementation principles and benefits of a new implementation entirely based on all-optical signal processing.

2017: 1 ) Patent Number : 45 ) Date of Patent : 5 , 161 , 044 Nov . 3 , 1992 ternally Modulated RF Fiber Optic Links "
Abstract: ternally Modulated RF Fiber Optic Links", by Stephens et al., Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. LT-5. "Optical Waves in Crystals", by Yariv et al., (Ch. 11: Guided Waves and Integrated Optics). "Comparison of Second and Third Order Distortion in Intensity Modulated InCaA: Lasers and an LiNbO3 External Modulator", Paper WK2, OFC89, Confer ence on Optical Fiber Communications, Houston, Tex., Feb. 1989. "High Sensitivity Optical Analog Link. Using an Exter nal Modulator', by Betts et al., CLEO (1989) Apr. 24-28, Paper TUJ 19.

2017: Sub-GHz Resolution Photonic Spectral Processor and Its System Applications
Abstract: A record performance metric waveguide grating router (WGR) design with a 200 GHz free spectral range (FSR) capable of resolving sub-GHz resolution spectral features is developed for a fine resolution photonic spectral processor (PSP). The WGR's FSR was designed to support subchannel add/drop from a superchannel of 1 Tb/s capacity. Due to fabrication imperfections, we introduce phase corrections to the light beams emerging from the 250 waveguides of the WGR output using a liquid crystal on silicon (LCoS) phase spatial light modulator (SLM) placed in an imaging configuration. A second LCoS SLM is located at the Fourier plane, for arbitrary spectral amplitude and phase manipulations. The PSP is utilized in multiple system transmission experiments, such as flexible spectral shaping and subcarrier drop demultiplexing with sub-GHz spectral resolution.

2017: Real-Time Hardware Demonstration of 180 Gbps DFT-S OFDM Receiver Based on Digital Sub-banding
Abstract: In just 3 FPGAs we realize fastest (180 Gbps) real-time filter-bank based DFT-S CO-OFDM 16-QAM 25 GHz Rx, at record 1.06 samples/symbol (7.3 b/Hz), demonstrating dual polarization SMF transmission. Extrapolated ASIC would save <50% power. Introduction Coherent optical orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (CO-OFDM), including Discrete Fourier Transform -spread (DFTS-OFDM) variants [1,2] with dual-polarization QAM is a promising technology for optical communication. In recent years, several groups demonstrated real-time high-speed CO-OFDM implementations. For practical systems, overall complexity must be reduced and efficiency be improved. In this work we report the fastest and the most efficient realtime receiver (Rx) system, based on our novel sub-banding DFTS-OFDM DSP(Tab.1) [2, 3]. This work takes a major step toward more efficient hardware (HW) implementation with higher spectral efficiency and lower sampling rates and significant reduced HW-computational complexity of the receiver (Rx) – as itemized in the note above. Our demonstrated shorter reach is not an actual system limitation but is due to experimental resource availability. In fact, our attained EVM in principle suffices for competitive extrapolation of distances. Our key advantages: (i) major reduction (~ factor-of-two) in the real-time HW requirement, attained due to our unique twice-under-decimated digital sub-banding technique theoretically detailed in [2]; (ii) maximizing spectral efficiency (SE) and reducing sampling rate to 1.07 samples/symbol (rather than conventional 2 samples/symbol) due to unique digital subbanding algorithm [2] eliminating spectral guardbands between the sub-bands, e.g. as in [7]. (iii) First real-time highly HW-efficient FPGA implementation of specific novel DSP algorithms (at the sub-band processor level): GolayComplementary-Codes (GCC) based timing recovery and Pilot-assisted Carrier Frequency Offset (CFO) compensation, where the pilot resides in the mid sub-band, saving HWexpensive band-pass-filtering. System description The experimental setup (Fig. 1) comprises an optical transmitter (Tx) and Rx for 180 Gbps data Tab. 1: Some recent CO-OFDM real-time demonstrations in comparison with our current work Author[Ref.] Net Rate Baud Rate DAC/ADC HW Platform Modulation Spectral Efficiency Distance S. Chen [4] 110Gbps 18GBd 6G/1.5G 1 FPGA chip DP-QPSK 1.9 bit/Hz 600km N.Kaneda [5] 76Gbps 29GBd 64G/32G 4 FPGAs Virtex-7 DP-QPSK 2.9 bit/Hz 500km X. Xiao [6] 100Gbps 16.3GBd 63G/ 42G 32 FPGAs Virtex-6 DP-16QAM 6.57bit/Hz 200km This Work 180Gbps 25GBd 26.6/26.6G 3 FPGAs* Virtex-6 DP-16QAM 7.3bit/Hz 100km *Note: Our system needs just 3 FPGAs to arbitrarily access on the fly in real-time, any of the 14 data-carrying sub-bands per channel. Extrapolated to a full Rx serving all 15 sub-bands of the 25 GHz channel, the equivalent processing power of 16 Virtex-6 FPGA would be required to process all sub-bands in parallel; still our full extrapolated system would remarkably require a factor-of-two fewer FPGAs than that state-of-the-art demo of Xiao [6], yet our system carries almost twice the bit rate (180 Gbps rather than 100 Gbps in [6]). Fig. 1: (left) System block diagram of experimental setup. (right) Real-time 180 Gbps sub-banded DFT-S OFDM Rx on just 3 Virtex6 FPGAs 388 ECOC 2016 42nd European Conference and Exhibition on Optical Communications September 18 – 22, 2016 Düsseldorf ISBN 978-3-8007-4274-5 © VDE VERLAG GMBH Berlin Offenbach payload over a 100Km SMF optical link. At the Tx side, each transmission band is digitally multiplexed out of 16 Single Carrier (SC) subbands, realized as DFTS-OFDM 16-QAM per sub-band modulation (Fig. 2). Among the 16 subbands, 14 of them carry uncorrelated PRBS19 data; two sub-bands do not carry data but are reserved for special purposes: the 16th wrapped around sub-band provides ADC anti-aliasing filter transition; the 8th sub-band carries two ±415.6 MHz pilots for CFO/phase recovery. The 14 remaining sub-bands carry data, 64-DFTS-OFDM per sub-band, corresponding to 1024 subcarriers for all 16 sub-bands. The Cyclic Prefix (CP) is just 8 samples (0.83%). Overall spectral efficiency is 8*14/15*0.9917=7.4b/Hz. Taking into account that just 1% of the transmitted data suffices for channel estimation, our final spectral efficiency is 7.34b/Hz. To reduce the PAPR, we use a low-complexity combination of a Partial Transmit Sequence (PTS) algorithm [8] along with optimized clipping (Fig. 2right). Random phases (±1 factors) are applied to each of the 14 data sub-bands. Out of the 214 possible combinations, we verified that 50 random combinations already provide significant improvement of several dB, in exchange for moderate extra complexity and 0.5% SE reduction. The last TX digital stage performs digital high-pass pre-distortion, to compensate for Micram ADC30 and DAC30 roll-off (Fig. 2centerbottom). The novel Rx DSP is detailed in Fig. 3. The basic functions comprise twice-underdecimated analysis Filter Banks (FB) [3] incorporating, at the FB outputs, pilot-assisted [9] CFO and nonlinear phase noise mitigation stages. "Classic" OFDM Rx functions are separately performed (in “Sub-band FPGA processors”), on sub-band basis at 8-fold lower rate. In fact, the two X/Y-FB modules are the only ones operating at full rate. The OFDM receiver functions are: RX timing sync based on Golay sequences [10], DFTS-OFDM de-multiplexing and channel equalization (adaptive LMS based), QAM16 slicer, BER meter, all efficiently implemented in the FPGA HW with innovative solutions for the Golay timing. Although we afforded implementing just a single “Sub-band FPGA processor”, the other 13 processors would be identical, in parallel. The sole sub-band processor is switchable to any FB output, enabling to fully evaluate system performance by accessing and demodulating at will any subband (1.6GHz slice) out of the 25 GHz channel spectrum. Real-Time Implementation All receiver functions (Fig. 3) (except for duplicating identical processor modules for all sub-bands) are real-time implemented resorting to just 3 FPGA chips. FPGA X/Y interfaces to the ADC chips, performs calibration of internal ADC parameters and IQ gain/phase imbalance correction, at system bring-up. Following IQCP 8 Smpls Pr e Di st or t. DFT Spreading Array PTS STAGES OFDM Modulation 64-pnt FFT QAM16 Mapper ±1 64 PN Data 64-pnt FFT QAM16 Mapper ±1 64 PN Data Sub Band1 Sub Band15 1024 Pnt. IFFT SubBand8 Pilot Sub Band16

2016: Thermodynamic Signal-to-Noise and Channel Capacity Limits of Magnetic Induction Sensors and Communication Systems
Abstract: Magnetic communication systems are typically used when the medium contains matter, or when short-range communication is of interest. Previous works have disregarded impediments to transmission performance due to skin and proximity effects and radiation resistance, although such effects may be significant. This paper addresses these effects and proposes improved upper bounds on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and channel capacity. It is shown that the performance of magnetic communication systems is limited by skin and proximity effects at medium frequencies and by radiation resistance at high frequencies. A conclusion is that the sensitivity of magnetic induction sensors cannot be made arbitrarily high, since the noise associated with radiation resistance increases substantially in large coils. Another conclusion is that the potential SNR of any magnetic structure peaks at a particular frequency.

2016: Comparison of linear and nonlinear equalization for ultra-high capacity spectral superchannels
Abstract: In ultra-high-speed (>400Gb/s per wavelength), high-spectral efficiency coherent optical communication systems using multi-carrier spectral superchannels, the maximum reach is severely limited due to linear and, foremost, nonlinear impairments. Hence, the implementation of advanced digital signal processing (DSP) techniques in optical transceivers is crucial for alleviating the impact of such impairments. However, the DSP performance improvement comes at the expense of increased cost and power consumption. Given that the computational complexity of the applied linear and nonlinear equalizers is the factor that determines the trade-off between the performance improvement and cost, in this study we provide an extended analysis on the computational complexity of various linear and nonlinear equalization approaches. First, we draw a complexity comparison between a conventional OFDM coherent receiver versus a filter-bank based OFDM receiver and it is shown that the latter provides significant complexity savings. Second, we present a comparison between the digital back-propagation split-step Fourier (DBP-SSF) method and the inverse Volterra series transfer function nonlinear equalizer (IVSTF-NLE) in terms of performance and computational complexity for a 32 Gbaud polarization multiplexed (PM)-16 quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) OFDM superchannel.

2015: Multi-Degree-of-Freedom Stabilization of Large-Scale Photonic-Integrated Circuits
Abstract: We present and elaborate the principles of a novel control and calibration (C&C) systematic approach, aiming at feedback stabilization of large scale photonic-integrated circuits (PIC) to their nominal operating points in D-dimensional spaces of tuning parameters, based on refinement of extremum-seeking (ES) real-time optimization techniques. The novel methodology enables, in principle, stabilizing a large number D of tuning degrees of freedom (DOF) of PICs, with just one optical power monitoring (probe) point. The proposed C&C digital controller ports multidimensional ES stabilization concepts to photonics for the first time and further introduces novel improvements to known ES techniques, proposing a new frame-based discrete-multitone method of actuation signals generation and probe signals detection, akin to an orthogonal-frequency-division multiplexing modulation format. Another novel element is that the iterative digital algorithm adaptively selects between gradient- versus Newton-based descent and between various methods of line search. This approach enables real-time application of unconstrained optimization techniques for C&C of photonic circuits with multiple tuning DOFs. The new technique is exemplified by numeric simulations of the stabilization of a Silicon photonic microring modulator with D = 2 tuning DOFs, concurrently tuning both resonant phase and a second coupling phase parameter, optimizing critical coupling into the microring based on observing the optical power at single low-frequency monitoring point.

2015: Ultra-Dense, Single-Wavelength DFT-Spread OFDMA PON With Laserless 1.2 Gb/s ONU Ready for Silicon Photonics Integration
Abstract: We introduce an ultra-dense network architecture designed for silicon photonics at the optical network unit (ONU). This network relies on only 3.333 GSa/s and 417 MSa/s converters at the OLT and ONU, respectively, and offers up to 12 Gbit/s of symmetric traffic in a single 12.5-GHz optical channel. Multiple access and lowest processing speeds at the ONU are enabled by choosing 10 DFT-spread OFDM subbands. We demonstrate this FDMA network architecture in a proof-of-principle experiment with up to eight 300-MBd 16QAM subbands offering a bidirectional data rate of 9.6 Gb/s. Real-time signal processing is realized for downstream transmission. Finally, we shortly address future improvements of this network architecture by employing integrated silicon photonics and analog signal processing to enable fine FDM for next-generation access networks.

2015: Experimental demonstration of low-complexity fiber chromatic dispersion mitigation for reduced guard-interval OFDM coherent optical communication systems based on digital spectrum sub-band multiplexing.
Abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a novel digital signal processing (DSP) structure for reduced guard-interval (RGI) OFDM coherent optical systems. The proposed concept is based on digitally slicing optical channel bandwidth into multiple spectrally disjoint sub-bands which are then processed in parallel. Each low bandwidth sub-band has a smaller delay-spread compared to a full-band signal. This enables compensation of both chromatic dispersion (CD) and polarization mode dispersion using a simple timing and one-tap-per-symbol frequency domain equalizer with a small cyclic prefix overhead. In terms of the DSP architecture, this allows for a highly efficient parallelization of DSP tasks performed over the received signal samples by deploying multiple processors running at a lower clock rate. It should be noted that this parallelization is performed in the frequency domain and it allows for flexible optical transceiver schemes. In addition, the resulting optical receiver is simplified due to the removal of the CD compensation equalizer compared to conventional RGI-OFDM systems. In this paper we experimentally demonstrate digital sub-banding of optical bandwidth. We test the system performance for different modulation formats (QPSK, 16QAM and 32QAM) over various transmission distances and optical launch powers using a 1.5% CP overhead in all scenarios. We also compare the proposed RGI-OFDM architecture performance against common single carrier modulation formats. At the same total data rate and signal bandwidth both systems have similar performance and transmission reach whereas the proposed method allows for a significant reduction of computational complexity due to removal of CD pre/post compensation equalizer.

2014: Digital sub-banding for coherent single-mode and spatial division multiplexed fiber systems
Abstract: OFDM is efficiently processed by digitally slicing the received channel spectrum by under-decimated filter banks. We introduce a new fast converging filter-bank sub-banded MIMO-rake equalizer for MIMO SDM channels, suitable for weak inter-modal coupling.

2014: Adaptive controller of two tuning phases in a microring based binary phase shift keying (BPSK) modulator
Abstract: The state-of-the art for control of microring based devices is tuning just resonant phase. We introduce an extremum-seeking discrete-multitone adaptive controller, concurrently tuning both resonant phase and second coupling phase parameter optimizing microring critical coupling.

2014: Flexible real-time transmitter at 10 Gbit/s for SCFDMA PONs focusing on low-cost ONUs
Abstract: We demonstrate, to the best of our knowledge, the first real-time single-carrier frequency division multiple access transmitter designed to be used in photonic communication networks. It is capable of providing 10 Gbit/s net bitrate at 3.125 GHz slot bandwidth, providing data to nine quasi-Nyquist spectral groups. The transmitter is designed with respect to logic efficiency and a fine user grid allowing the operation of narrow bandwidth, low-cost optical network units. Moreover, it offers runtime flexibility, an efficient 96-point discrete Fourier transform and a multiplier-free differential phase encoder. The article concludes with a presentation of the transmitters hardware setup and an evaluation of its performance in the case of direct electrical AWG-ONU Rx interconnection and the optical back-to-back case.

2014: Sub-banded / single-sub-carrier drop-demux and flexible spectral shaping with a fine resolution photonic processor
Abstract: Spectral processor based on arrayed waveguide grating and free-space manipulation is capable of arbitrary filtering at record metrics of 0.8GHz resolution over 200GHz span. Narrowband coherent drop-demultiplexing and controlled optical shaping is demonstrated in unison with digital sub-banding.

2014: OFDM/WDM PON with laserless, colorless 1 Gb/s ONUs based on Si-PIC and slow IC
Abstract: We introduce a next-generation long-reach access optical network (35 dB loss budget +2 dB margin) delivering up to 40G/40G per passive 1:256 optical distribution network, supporting symmetrical 1 Gb/s rates per home user or up to 40 Gb/s for business users (e.g., enterprises, antenna sites). The proposed system is based on a novel spectrally efficient orthogonal frequency division multiplexing/wavelength division multiplexing OFDM/WDM architecture symmetrically using 16-QAM OFDM polarization diversity in both the downstream and upstream in order to serve low-cost energy-efficient symmetric 1 Gb/s optical network units (ONUs), which are self-coherent, laserless, colorless, and tunable-filter-free. Each ONU comprises a standard semiconductor optical amplifier (SOA), a silicon-based photonic integrated circuit (PIC), and mixed-signal electronic integrated circuits (ICs) performing the signal processing at a relatively slow rate as compared with the overall passive optical network (PON) throughput: digital to analog converters (DACs) and analog to digital converters (ADCs) at 417 MS/s for the home user ONUs.

