Recent papers for Nemirovsky Yael:

2024: A Novel Miniature and Selective CMOS Gas Sensor for Gas Mixture Analysis—Part 4: The Effect of Humidity
Abstract: This is the fourth part of a study presenting a miniature, combustion-type gas sensor (dubbed GMOS) based on a novel thermal sensor (dubbed TMOS). The TMOS is a micromachined CMOS-SOI transistor, which acts as the sensing element and is integrated with a catalytic reaction plate, where ignition of the gas takes place. The GMOS measures the temperature change due to a combustion exothermic reaction. The controlling parameters of the sensor are the ignition temperature applied to the catalytic layer and the increased temperature of the hotplate due to the released power of the combustion reaction. The solid-state device applies electrical parameters, which are related to the thermal parameters. The heating is applied by Joule heating with a resistor underneath the catalytic layer while the signal is monitored by the change in voltage of the TMOS sensor. Voltage, like temperature, is an intensive parameter, and one always measures changes in such parameters relative to a reference point. The reference point for both parameters (temperature and voltage) is the blind sensor, without any catalytic layer and hence where no reaction takes place. The present paper focuses on the study of the effect of humidity upon performance. In real life, the sensors are exposed to environmental parameters, where humidity plays a significant role. Humidity is high in storage rooms of fruits and vegetables, in refrigerators, in silos, in fields as well as in homes and cars. This study is significant and innovative since it extends our understanding of the performance of the GMOS, as well as pellistor sensors in general, in the presence of humidity. The three main challenges in simulating the performance are (i) how to define the operating temperature based on the input parameters of the heater voltage in the presence of humidity; (ii) how to measure the dynamics of the temperature increase during cyclic operation at a given duty cycle; and (iii) how to model the correlation between the operating temperature and the sensing response in the presence of humidity. Due to the complexity of the 3D analysis of packaged GMOS, and the many aspects of humidity simultanoesuly affecting performane, advanced simulation software is applied, incorporating computational fluid dynamics (CFD). The simulation and experimental data of this study show that the GMOS sensor can operate in the presence of high humidity.

2023: Selective Sensing of Mixtures of Gases with CMOS-SOI-MEMS Sensor Dubbed GMOS
Abstract: The need to achieve digital gas sensing technology, namely, a technology to sense and transmit gas-enabled digital media, has been recognized as highly challenging. This challenge has motivated the authors to focus on complementary metal oxide semiconductor silicon on insulator micro electro-mechanical system (CMOS-SOI-MEMS) technologies, and the result is a new pellistor-like sensor, dubbed GMOS, with integrated signal processing. In this study, we describe the performance of such sensors for the selective detection of mixtures of gases. The novel key ideas of this study are: (i) the use of the GMOS for gas sensing; (ii) applying the Kalman filter to improve the signal-to-noise ratio; (iii) adding artificial intelligence (AI) with tiny edge approach.

2023: Novel Grey Body for Accurate Radiometric Measurements
Abstract: This study presents an original approach on how to generate a radiator with an emissivity less than one by using a conventional blackbody and a screen with a defined area density of holes. This is needed for the calibration of infrared (IR) radiometry, which is a very useful form of temperature measurement in industrial, scientific, and medical applications. One of the major sources of errors in IR radiometry is the emissivity of the surface being measured. Emissivity is a physically well-defined parameter, but in real experiments, it may be influenced by many factors: surface texture, spectral properties, oxidation, and aging of surfaces. While commercial blackbodies are prevalent, the much-needed grey bodies with a known emissivity are unavailable. This work describes a methodology for how to calibrate radiometers in the lab or in the factory or FAB using the “screen approach” and a novel thermal sensor dubbed Digital TMOS. The fundamental physics required to appreciate the reported methodology is reviewed. The linearity in emissivity of the Digital TMOS is demonstrated. The study describes in detail how to obtain the perforated screen as well as how to do the calibration.

2023: A Novel Miniature and Selective CMOS Gas Sensor for Gas Mixture Analysis—Part 3: Extending the Chemical Modeling
Abstract: This is the third part of the paper presenting a miniature, combustion-type gas sensor (dubbed GMOS) based on a novel thermal sensor (dubbed TMOS). The TMOS is a micromachined CMOS-SOI transistor, which acts as the sensing element and is integrated with a catalytic reaction plate, where ignition of the gas takes place. The first part was focused on the chemical and technological aspects of the sensor. In Part 2, the emphasis was on the physical aspects of the reaction micro-hot plate on which the catalytic layer is deposited. The present study focuses on applying several advanced simulation tools, which extend our understanding of the GMOS performance, as well as pellistor sensors in general. The three main challenges in simulating the performance are: (i) how to define the operating temperature based on the input parameters; (ii) how to measure the dynamics of the temperature increase during cyclic operation at a given duty cycle; (iii) how to model the correlation between the operating temperature and the sensing response. The simulated and analytical models and measured results are shown to be in good agreement.

2023: Modeling Signal-to-Noise Ratio of CMOS Image Sensors with a Stochastic Approach under Non-Stationary Conditions
Abstract: A stochastic model for characterizing the conversion gain of Active Pixel Complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors (APS), assuming stationary conditions was recently presented in this journal. In this study, we extend the stochastic approach to non-stationary conditions. Non-stationary conditions occur in gated imaging applications. This new stochastic model, which is based on fundamental physical considerations, enlightens us with new insights into gated CMOS imaging, regardless of the sensor. The Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) is simulated, allowing optimized performance. The conversion gain should be determined under stationary conditions.

2022: Toward an Accurate IR Remote Sensing of Body Temperature Radiometer Based on a Novel IR Sensing System Dubbed Digital TMOS
Abstract: A novel uncooled thermal sensor based on a suspended transistor, fabricated in standard CMOS-SOI process, and released by dry etching, dubbed Digital TMOS, has been developed. Using the transistor as the sensing element has advantages in terms of internal gain, low power, low-cost technology, and high temperature sensitivity. A two channel radiometer, based on the new nano-metric CMOS-SOI-NEMS Technology, enables remote temperature sensing as well as emissivity sensing of the forehead and body temperatures of people, with high accuracy and high resolution. Body temperature is an indicator of human physiological activity and health, especially in pediatrics, surgery, and general emergency departments. This was already recognized in past pandemics such as SARS, EBOLA, and Chicken Flu. Nowadays, with the spread of COVID-19, forehead temperature measurements are used widely to screen people for the illness. Measuring the temperature of the forehead using remote sensing is safe and convenient and there are a large number of available commercial instruments, but studies show that the measurements are not accurate. The surface emissivity of an object has the most significant effect on the measured temperature by IR remote sensing. This work describes the achievements towards high–performance, low-cost, low power, mobile radiometry, to rapidly screen for fever to identify victims of the coronavirus (COVID-19). The main two aspects of the innovation of this study are the use of the new thermal sensor for measurements and the extensive modeling of this sensor.

2022: CMOS-MEMS Gas Sensor Dubbed GMOS for SelectiveAnalysis of Gases with Tiny Edge Machine Learning
Abstract: None

2022: Air Temperature Measurement Using CMOS-SOI-MEMS Sensor Dubbed Digital TMOS
Abstract: : Air temperature is an important meteorological parameter and is used for numerous pur-poses. Air temperature is usually observed using a radiation shield with ventilation, to obtain proper measurements by providing shade from direct solar radiation and increasing the heat exchange between the sensor and atmosphere. In rural areas, such auxiliary equipment is not available and it is still a challenge to obtain the air temperature accurately without aspiration. In this study, we describe a novel qualified CMOS-MEMS low-cost sensor, dubbed Digital TMOS, for remote temperature sensing of air temperature. The novel key ideas of this study are (i) the use of the Digital-TMOS, (ii) a narrow optical band pass filter (4.26 um +/ − 90 nm) corresponding to the CO 2 carbon dioxide absorption band; (iii) measuring simultaneously the weather parameters.

2022: Revisiting the Modeling of the Conversion Gain of CMOS Image Sensors with a New Stochastic Approach
Abstract: A stochastic model for characterizing the conversion gain of Active Pixel Complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors (APS) with at least four transistors is presented. This model, based on the fundamental principles of electronic noise, may provide a reliable calibration of the gain conversion, which is one of the most important parameters of CMOS Image Sensor pixels. The new model revisits the “gold standard” ratio method of the measured variance of the shot noise to the mean value. The model assumes that shot noise is the dominant noise source of the pixel. The microscopic random time-dependent voltage of any shot noise electron charging the junction capacitance C of the sensing node may have either an exponential form or a step form. In the former case, a factor of 1/2 appears in the variance to the mean value, namely, q/2C is obtained. In the latter case, the well-established ratio q/C remains, where q is the electron charge. This correction factor affects the parameters that are based on the conversion gain, such as quantum efficiency and noise. The model has been successfully tested for advanced image sensors with six transistors fabricated in a commercial FAB, applying a CMOS 180 nm technology node with four metals. The stochastic modeling is corroborated by measurements of the quantum efficiency and simulations with advanced software (Lumerical).

2022: New Sensing Systems for Securing Virtual Walls at Outdoor Based on True Differential Digital TMOS
Abstract: This paper presents a non-imaging differential digital passive Infra-Red (PIR) remote sensing system using CMOS-SOI-MEMS transistors as the thermal sensor. A large $660\mu {\mathrm m}\, {\mathrm x}\, 660\mu{\mathrm m}$ pixel area is developed by the 8x8 mosaic matrix of $60\mu {\mathrm m} \,{\mathrm x}\, 60\mu{\mathrm m}$ sub-pixels connected in-parallel. The mosaic sensors, which are manufactured by nano-fabrication methods in CMOS FABs, exhibit enhanced performance and robust manufacturing in wafer level processing and vacuum packaging. Since the sub-pixels are thermally isolated, the thermal time constant of the large pixel is determined by that of the sub-pixel, which is $\sim {\mathrm 80}$ msec when packaged in vacuum of $\sim 1{\mathrm Pa}$. For outdoor operation, two identical large pixels are differentially measured. The pixels view the detected scene with an optics that may be based either on mirror optics or Fresnel plastic lenses. The optics defines a narrow field of view (± 3 degrees) as required for curtain sensors. Furthermore, the optics forms “cockeyed” vision which enables differential measurement that cancels the environmental” noise” and allows outdoor operation. The overall measured performance for detecting human targets at extended ranges and hot spots detection are reported. This sensor outperforms thermopiles and pyroelectric sensors at outdoor operation.

2021: Study of the Absorption of Electromagnetic Radiation by 3D, Vacuum-Packaged, Nano-Machined CMOS Transistors for Uncooled IR Sensing
Abstract: There is an ongoing effort to fabricate miniature, low-cost, and sensitive thermal sensors for domestic and industrial uses. This paper presents a miniature thermal sensor (dubbed TMOS) that is fabricated in advanced CMOS FABs, where the micromachined CMOS-SOI transistor, implemented with a 130-nm technology node, acts as a sensing element. This study puts emphasis on the study of electromagnetic absorption via the vacuum-packaged TMOS and how to optimize it. The regular CMOS transistor is transformed to a high-performance sensor by the micro- or nano-machining process that releases it from the silicon substrate by wafer-level processing and vacuum packaging. Since the TMOS is processed in a CMOS-SOI FAB and is comprised of multiple thin layers that follow strict FAB design rules, the absorbed electromagnetic radiation cannot be modeled accurately and a simulation tool is required. This paper presents modeling and simulations based on the LUMERICAL software package of the vacuum-packaged TMOS. A very high absorption coefficient may be achieved by understanding the physics, as well as the role of each layer.

2021: A MEMS-CMOS Microsystem for Contact-Less Temperature Measurements
Abstract: This paper presents a microsystem suitable for contact-less human body temperature measurements, as well as for presence, motion and proximity detection. It consists of a 130-nm CMOS-SOI MEMS (Micro-Electro Mechanical System) thermal sensor, referred to as “TMOS”, and its 130-nm CMOS interface circuit. The TMOS, based on a micromachined transistor, being an active device, features advantages in terms of internal gain: with optimal biasing, indeed, the TMOS achieves 274- $\mu \text{V}/^\circ \text{C}$ input-referred sensitivity at 3-cm distance and 50.33° field-of-view (FOV), outperforming thermopile detectors. The sensor and the interface circuit, featuring a chopper-stabilized-based analog readout with a 12-bit SAR ADC (Successive Approximation Register Analog-to-Digital Converter), were mounted in the same package and extensively measured: the microsystem achieves repeatability and ±0.17°C precision, thus satisfying the requirements for contact-less human body temperature measurements; furthermore, its performance as presence, motion and proximity detector was also verified.

2021: Non-Imaging Digital CMOS-SOI-MEMS Uncooled Passive Infra-Red Sensing Systems
Abstract: This paper presents a novel non-imaging digital passive Infra-Red (PIR) sensing system using a CMOS-SOI-MEMS transistor as the thermal sensor, which replaces the traditional pyroelectric sensors and outperforms thermopiles. The mosaic sensors, which are manufactured by nano-fabrication methods in standard FABs, exhibit enhanced performance and robust manufacturing on wafer level processing and vacuum packaging. Mirror optics instead of Fresnel plastic lenses provides enhanced performance at low-cost. The essential aspects of the design of the mirrors for curtain sensors and presence sensors are presented. The overall measured performance for detecting human targets at extended ranges and hot spots detection are reported. The overall performance of the sensing systems indicate why they are most suitable for consumer electronics, including smart homes, wearables, Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile applications.

2021: Study of a Voltage-Mode Readout Configuration for Micromachined CMOS Transistors for Uncooled IR Sensing
Abstract: Micromachined CMOS transistors, dubbed as “TMOS”, have been developed in recent years as a novel type of uncooled thermal sensors. The TMOS consists of a thermally isolated suspended transistor, fabricated in a 130-nm process and released by dry etching, which absorbs thermal radiation, inducing an increase of the transistor temperature and, therefore, generating a signal by changing the transistor I-V characteristics. With respect to conventional thermal sensors, as the TMOS is an active sensing element, it features advantages in terms of internal gain, resulting in high temperature sensitivity, which makes the TMOS particularly appealing. The TMOS sensing performance depends on the transistor operating region and on its configuration. In this paper, different configurations are investigated by means of Cadence simulations, in order to identify the voltage-mode readout configuration which maximizes the sensor performance. Voltage-mode, and not current-mode, readout is considered in order to be able to directly compare the TMOS performance with the one of an integrated micromachined thermopile sensor, which, given its characteristics, only supports voltage-mode readout.

2021: Study of CMOS Sensing System for Radon and Alpha Radiation
Abstract: This study focuses on a CMOS sensing system for Radon and alpha radiation, which is based on a semiconductor device that is integrated monolithically on a single chip with the Readout Circuitry, thus allowing fabrication of a low-power and low-cost sensing system. The new sensor is based on a new mosaic design of an array of Floating Gate non-volatile memory-like transistors, which are implemented in a standard CMOS technology, with a single polysilicon layer. The transistors are electrically combined in parallel and are operated at subthreshold, thus achieving very high sensitivity and reduced noise. The sensing system’s architecture and design is presented, along with key operation concepts, characterization, and analysis results. Alpha and radon exposure results are compared to commercial radon detectors. The new sensor, dubbed TODOS-Radon sensor, measures continuously, is battery operated and insensitive to humidity.

2021: Characterization and Architecture of Monolithic N⁺P-CMOS-SiPM Array for ToF Measurements
Abstract: This article focuses on the characterization and architecture of a new mixed design approach to monolithic CMOS-silicon-photomultiplier (SiPM), where the mixed-signal circuitry as well as the logical concepts are implemented at the die level. The new architecture contains two key areas: 1) a method for sampling, filtering, and converting the electrical signal generated by the SiPM to the digital domain by taking advantage of the nature of the SiPM as an “optical-to-digital converter” and 2) a fully digital configurable method, which requires just one clock generator, enabling sampling at an adjustable time window (gating method) and reduces background noise. We report the design, simulation, and measurement results. The system was fabricated at a low-cost <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$0.18~\mathrm {[{\mu {\mathrm{ m}}}]}0.18$ </tex-math></inline-formula>-<inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$\mu \text{m}$ </tex-math></inline-formula> CMOS process yet achieves a clock rate of 1 GHz, high timing and photon counting resolution, and low jitter. The reported demonstrator may be applied to 3-D range measurements, light detection and ranging (LIDAR), time-of-flight (ToF) system, and gaming systems.

2020: Thermal conductivity of gasholders during gas storage
Abstract: A dynamic problem of gasholders during gas storage has been considered. Each layer of gasholders has its own physical properties, and the heat transfer coefficient depends on the coordinate system. The solution of a dynamic problem is framed using a finite integral transform technique.

2020: A Novel Miniature and Selective CMOS Gas Sensor for Gas Mixture Analysis—Part 2: Emphasis on Physical Aspects
Abstract: This is a second part of the paper presenting a miniature, combustion-type gas sensor (dubbed GMOS) based on a novel thermal sensor (dubbed TMOS). The TMOS is a micromachined CMOS-SOI transistor, which acts as the sensing element and is integrated with a catalytic reaction plate, where ignition of the gas takes place. Part 1 focused on the chemical and technological aspects of the sensor. In part 2, the emphasis is on the physical aspects of the reaction micro-hot plate on which the catalytic layer is deposited. The three main challenges in designing the hot plate are addressed: (i) How to design a hot plate operating in air, with a low thermal conductivity; (ii) how to measure the temperature of the hot plate during operation; (iii) how to reduce the total consumed power during operation. Reported simulated as well as analytical models and measured results are in good agreement.

2020: Wafer Level Packaged CMOS-SOI-MEMS Thermal Sensor at Wide Pressure Range for IoT Applications
Abstract: Wafer-level processed and wafer-level packaged low-cost microelectromechanical system (MEMS) thermal sensors are required for a wide range of Internet of Things (IoT) and wearables applications. Recently, a new generation of uncooled thermal sensors based on CMOS-SOI-MEMS technology has emerged, with higher performance compared to commercial thermal sensors (bolometers, thermopiles, and pyroelectric sensors). The technology is implemented in commercial CMOS FABs and is, therefore, based on mature technology and implemented at a low cost. When packaged in a high vacuum, the sensors are dubbed TMOS and are applied for uncooled IR radiation. At atmospheric pressure, the sensors may function as gas sensors, dubbed GMOS. This paper focuses on the study of the thermal performance of wafer-level processed and packaged TMOS and GMOS sensors, where the pressure varies between high vacuum (0.01 Pa) and atmospheric pressure. The present study is based on analytical thermal modeling for gaining physical insight, 3D simulation is performed by ANSYS software, and finally, the measurements of the packaged devices are compared with the modeling and simulations.

2020: High vacuum wafer level packaging for uncooled infrared sensor
Abstract: High vacuum packaging is a key factor for MEMS based uncooled infrared sensors in order to enhance sensitivity and optimize device performances. In this paper a high vacuum, low cost and reliable wafer-level package (WLP) architecture for a MOS based infrared sensor is presented, based on a double wafer bonding process and a getter layer integration. Vacuum level of the WLP was electrically characterized with positive results, confirming vacuum level value lower than 10$\mu$ bar.

