Recent papers for Noa Zychlinski:

2024: Tele-medicine controlled hospital at home is associated with better outcomes than hospital stay
Abstract: Background Hospital-at-home (HAH) is increasingly becoming an alternative for in-hospital stay in selected clinical scenarios. Nevertheless, there is still a question whether HAH could be a viable option for acutely ill patients, otherwise hospitalized in departments of general-internal medicine. Methods This was a retrospective matched study, conducted at a telemedicine controlled HAH department, being part of a tertiary medical center. The objective was to compare clinical outcomes of acutely ill patients (both COVID-19 and non-COVID) admitted to either in-hospital or HAH. Non-COVID patients had one of three acute infectious diseases: urinary tract infections (UTI, either lower or upper), pneumonia, or cellulitis. Results The analysis involved 159 HAH patients (64 COVID-19 and 95 non-COVID) who were compared to a matched sample of in-hospital patients (192 COVID-19 and 285 non-COVID). The median length-of-hospital stay (LOS) was 2 days shorter in the HAH for both COVID-19 patients (95% CI: 1–3; p = 0.008) and non-COVID patients (95% CI; 1–3; p < 0.001). The readmission rates within 30 days were not significantly different for both COVID-19 patients (Odds Ratio (OR) = 1; 95% CI: 0.49–2.04; p = 1) and non-COVID patients (OR = 0.7; 95% CI; 0.39–1.28; p = 0.25). The differences remained insignificant within one year. The risk of death within 30 days was significantly lower in the HAH group for COVID-19 patients (OR = 0.34; 95% CI: 0.11–0.86; p = 0.018) and non-COVID patients (OR = 0.38; 95% CI: 0.14–0.9; p = 0.019). For one year survival period, the differences were significant for COVID-19 patients (OR = 0.5; 95% CI: 0.31–0.9; p = 0.044) and insignificant for non-COVID patients (OR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.4–1; p = 0.052). Conclusions Care for acutely ill patients in the setting of telemedicine-based hospital at home has the potential to reduce hospitalization length without increasing readmission risk and to reduce both 30 days and one-year mortality rates.

2024: The Hybrid Hospital: Balancing On-Site and Remote Hospitalization
Abstract: Hybrid hospitals offer on-site and remote hospitalization through telemedicine. These new healthcare models require novel operational policies to balance costs, efficiency, and patient well-being. Our study addresses two first-order questions: (i) how to direct patient admission and call-in based on individual characteristics and proximity and (ii) how to determine the optimal allocation of medical resources between these two hospitalization options and among different patient types. We develop a model that uses Brownian Motion to capture the patient's health evolution during remote/on-site hospitalization and during travel. Under cost-minimizing call-in policies, we find that remote hospitalization can be cost-effective for moderately distant patients, as the optimal call-in threshold is non-monotonic in the patient's travel time. Subject to scarce resources, the optimal solution structure becomes equivalent to a simultaneous, identically sized increase of remote and on-site costs under abundant resources. When limited resources must be divided among multiple patient types, the optimal thresholds shift in non-obvious ways as resource availability changes. Finally, we develop a practical and efficient policy that allows for swapping an on-site patient with a remote patient when the latter is called-in and sufficient resources are not available to treat both on-site. Contrary to the widely held view that telemedicine can mitigate rural and non-rural healthcare disparities, our research suggests that on-site care may actually be more cost-effective than remote hospitalization for patients in distant locations, due to (potentially overlooked) risks during patient travel. This finding may be of particular concern in light of the growing number of ``hospital deserts'' amid recent rural hospital closures, as these communities may in fact not be well-served through at-home care.

2023: Managing Queues with Reentrant Customers in Support of Hybrid Healthcare
Abstract: The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly boosted the use of hybrid healthcare settings, which orchestrate face-to-face services together with virtual ones. The advantages of virtual healthcare services are clear: they are less costly and less disruptive for patients who can receive the service in the comfort of their home and reduce patients’ exposure to illnesses prevalent in healthcare facilities. Nevertheless, there is evidence that patients are likely to require a supplementary in-person service upon completion of their virtual service. Motivated by such settings, we study a multiservice queueing system with face-to-face, virtual, and supplementary service channels. The service operator needs to allocate service capacity among the three classes and decide how to prioritize the patients when a service provider becomes available. The strong dependency between virtual and supplementary visits makes the problem challenging. Based on a fluid relaxation, we develop an index-based policy, the [Formula: see text] rule (or the [Formula: see text] rule in short), which, in addition to the holding cost, service time, abandonment rate, and service reward, also carefully balances the return probability and associated penalty. The theoretical results along with numerical experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed policy and the importance of capacity coordination when managing hybrid service settings. Our work provides insights on the trade-off between convenience and the value of care when offering virtual healthcare services. Funding: The author was supported in part by an Israel Science Foundation [Grant 277/21] and the Israel National Institute for Health Policy Research [Grant 2021/160/R].

2023: Coordination of Hospital Parking and Transportation Services: A Simulation-Based Approach
Abstract: Motivated by hospital parking problems that limit the access of patients and visitors, we study a hospital parking setting comprising an on-site parking lot with an occupancy-based dynamic tariff and a free shuttle service from an off-site free parking lot. We developed a discrete event simulation model to study the system's dynamics and find the preferable coordinated tariff and shuttle schedule that maximize revenue for the contractor operating the hospital's parking services under a predefined service level. We use a case study from Hadassah Medical Center in Ein Kerem, Jerusalem, to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Our results show that the coordinated solution provides significantly better performance: more than a 30% increase in service level, a 25% (about $5,000) increase in daily revenue, and a 53% decrease in average waiting time for a shuttle.

2023: Equity-Driven Management of Essential Environmental Resources Under Price-Based Consumption
Abstract: The global climate crisis and population growth restrict the availability of essential environmental resources such as water and energy and a solution for this situation remains elusive. If and when conditions become extreme, only the well-offs will have access to these valuable resources. With that in mind, we look for ways to achieve equity within societies while preserving, to the degree possible, natural resources. We suggest a method for setting differential pricing for each population stratum so that each spends a relatively similar percentage of their income on these basic commodities, without depleting valuable resources. Our method optimizes the prices while simultaneously estimating the unknown consumption–price relationship. We show the effectiveness of our method based on data from Israel and through extensive simulation experiments reflecting different levels of income inequality within societies, different consumption–price relations, and resource availability. Our study shows that equity and resource preservation can go hand-in-hand.

2022: Managing Queues with Different Resource Requirements
Abstract: In many service systems, customers from different classes may have very different resource requirements. These differences include not only the duration of the service but also the units of resource required. This is especially prominent in healthcare settings, where patients with different severity levels can require a different level of medical attention/supervision translating into varying demands of nurse staffing capacity. Motivated by these applications, in “Managing Queues with Different Resource Requirements,” Zychlinski, Chan, and Dong study the optimal scheduling policy of a multiserver queue in which customers from different classes may require different units of servers. When customers have heterogeneous resource requirements, in addition to the cost of waiting and resource requirement, we also need to take policy-induced idleness into account. A good policy needs to carefully balance the myopic cost reduction rate and the more forward-looking system throughput. An index-based policy, referred to as the idle-avoid [Formula: see text] rule, is developed to balance these factors. Theoretical analysis along with numerical experiments provide support for good and robust performance of the proposed policy.

2022: Applications of fluid models in service operations management
Abstract: None

2020: Bed Blocking in Hospitals Due to Scarce Capacity in Geriatric Institutions - Cost Minimization via Fluid Models
Abstract: Problem definition: This research focuses on elderly patients who have been hospitalized and are ready to be discharged, but they must remain in the hospital until a bed in a geriatric institution ...

2020: Scheduling Queues with Simultaneous and Heterogeneous Requirements from Multiple Types of Servers
Abstract: We study the scheduling of a new class of multi-class multi-pool queueing systems where different classes of customers have heterogeneous – in terms of the type and amount – resource requirements. In particular, a customer may require different numbers of servers from different server pools to be allocated simultaneously in order to be served. We apply stochastic simulation to study properties of the model and identify two types of server idleness: avoidable and unavoidable idleness, which play important, but different, roles in dictating system performance, and need to be carefully managed in scheduling. To minimize the long-run average holding cost, we propose a generalization of the cµ-rule, called Generalized Idle-Aware (GIA) cµ-rule. We provide insights into how to set the hyper parameters of the GIA cµ-rule. We also demonstrate that, with properly chosen hyper parameters, the GIA cµ-rule achieves superior and robust performance compared to reasonable benchmarks.

2018: Time-varying tandem queues with blocking: modeling, analysis, and operational insights via fluid models with reflection
Abstract: None

2018: Time-varying tandem queues with blocking: modeling, analysis, and operational insights via fluid models with reflection
Abstract: None

2018: Time-varying many-server finite-queues in tandem: Comparing blocking mechanisms via fluid models
Abstract: None

2014: Minimizing mortality in a mass casualty event: fluid networks in support of modeling and staffing
Abstract: The demand for medical treatment of casualties in mass casualty events (MCEs) exceeds resource supply. A key requirement in the management of such tragic but frequent events is thus the efficient allocation of scarce resources. This article develops a mathematical fluid model that captures the operational performance of a hospital during an MCE. The problem is how to allocate the surgeons—the scarcest of resources—between two treatment stations in order to minimize mortality. A focus is placed on casualties in need of immediate care. To this end, optimization problems are developed that are solved by combining theory with numerical analysis. This approach yields structural results that create optimal or near-optimal resource allocation policies. The results give rise to two types of policies, one that prioritizes a single treatment station throughout the MCE and a second policy in which the allocation priority changes. The approach can be implemented when preparing for MCEs and also during their real-time management when future decisions are based on current available information. The results of experiments, based on the outline of real MCEs, demonstrate that the proposed approach provides decision support tools, which are both useful and implementable.

