2024: The Potentially Negative Effects of AI Writing Assistants on Self-Disclosure
Abstract: None

2023: ASQ-IT: Interactive Explanations for Reinforcement-Learning Agents
Abstract: As reinforcement learning methods increasingly amass accomplishments, the need for comprehending their solutions becomes more crucial. Most explainable reinforcement learning (XRL) methods generate a static explanation depicting their developers' intuition of what should be explained and how. In contrast, literature from the social sciences proposes that meaningful explanations are structured as a dialog between the explainer and the explainee, suggesting a more active role for the user and her communication with the agent. In this paper, we present ASQ-IT -- an interactive tool that presents video clips of the agent acting in its environment based on queries given by the user that describe temporal properties of behaviors of interest. Our approach is based on formal methods: queries in ASQ-IT's user interface map to a fragment of Linear Temporal Logic over finite traces (LTLf), which we developed, and our algorithm for query processing is based on automata theory. User studies show that end-users can understand and formulate queries in ASQ-IT, and that using ASQ-IT assists users in identifying faulty agent behaviors.

2023: Three phases of increasing complexity in estimating vaccine protection.
Abstract: None

2023: Explaining Agent Preferences & Behavior: Integrating Reward-Decomposition & Contrastive-Highlights
Abstract: Explainable reinforcement learning methods aim to help elucidate agent policies and their underlying decision-making processes. One such method is reward decomposition, which aims to reveal an agent’s preferences in a specific world-state by presenting its expected utility decomposed to different components of the reward function. While this approach quantifies the expected decomposed rewards for alternative actions, it does not demonstrate the outcomes of these alternative actions in terms of the behavior of the agent. This work introduces “Contrastive Highlights”, a novel local explanation method that visually compares the agent’s chosen behavior to an alternative choice of action in a contrastive manner. We conducted user studies comparing participants’ understanding of agents’ preferences based on either reward decomposition, contrastive highlights, or a combination of both approaches. Our results show that integrating reward decomposition with contrastive highlights significantly improved participants’ performance compared to using each of the approaches separately.

2023: Mitigating Skewed Bidding for Conference Paper Assignment
Abstract: The explosion of conference paper submissions in AI and related fields, has underscored the need to improve many aspects of the peer review process, especially the matching of papers and reviewers. Recent work argues that the key to improve this matching is to modify aspects of the \emph{bidding phase} itself, to ensure that the set of bids over papers is balanced, and in particular to avoid \emph{orphan papers}, i.e., those papers that receive no bids. In an attempt to understand and mitigate this problem, we have developed a flexible bidding platform to test adaptations to the bidding process. Using this platform, we performed a field experiment during the bidding phase of a medium-size international workshop that compared two bidding methods. We further examined via controlled experiments on Amazon Mechanical Turk various factors that affect bidding, in particular the order in which papers are presented \cite{cabanac2013capitalizing,fiez2020super}; and information on paper demand \cite{meir2021market}. Our results suggest that several simple adaptations, that can be added to any existing platform, may significantly reduce the skew in bids, thereby improving the allocation for both reviewers and conference organizers.

2023: Explaining Reinforcement Learning Agents Through Counterfactual Action Outcomes
Abstract: Explainable reinforcement learning (XRL) methods aim to help elucidate agent policies and decision-making processes. The majority of XRL approaches focus on local explanations, seeking to shed light on the reasons an agent acts the way it does at a specific world state. While such explanations are both useful and necessary, they typically do not portray the outcomes of the agent's selected choice of action. 
In this work, we propose ``COViz'', a new local explanation method that visually compares the outcome of an agent's chosen action to a counterfactual one. In contrast to most local explanations that provide state-limited observations of the agent's motivation, our method depicts alternative trajectories the agent could have taken from the given state and their outcomes. 
We evaluated the usefulness of COViz in supporting people's understanding of agents' preferences and compare it with reward decomposition, a local explanation method that describes an agent's expected utility for different actions by decomposing it into meaningful reward types. Furthermore, we examine the complementary benefits of integrating both methods. Our results show that such integration significantly improved participants' performance.

2023: Explaining Agent Preferences and Behavior: Integrating Reward Decomposition and Contrastive Highlights
Abstract: None

2023: Frustratingly Easy Truth Discovery for Rank Aggregation 1
Abstract: Truth discovery is a general name for a broad range of statistical methods aimed to extract the correct answers to questions, based on multiple answers coming from noisy sources. For example, workers in a crowdsourcing platform. In this paper, we consider an extremely simple heuristic for estimating workers’ competence using average proximity to other workers. We prove that this estimates well the actual competence level and enables separating high and low quality workers in a wide spectrum of domains and statistical models. If we further assume conditional independence of workers, there is a linear or approximately linear relation between workers’ quality and their average similarity. This applies in particular when labels are ordinal rankings. Finally,weighing workers according to their average proximity in a crowdsourcing setting, results in substantial improvement over unweighted aggregation and other truth discovery algorithms in practice. We provide a result that may be of independent interest, showing that the optimal way to aggregate rankings under Condorcet noise model with known heterogeneous competence is a weighted Kemeny voting rule with speciﬁc weights.

2023: Protection against Omicron BA.1/BA.2 severe disease 0–7 months after BNT162b2 booster
Abstract: None

2022: Stop the [Image] Steal
Abstract: Images are powerful. Visual information can attract attention, improve persuasion, trigger stronger emotions, and is easy to share and spread. We examine the characteristics of the popular images shared on Twitter as part of "Stop the Steal'', the widespread misinformation campaign during the 2020 U.S. election. We analyze the spread of the forty most popular images shared on Twitter as part of this campaign. Using a coding process, we categorize and label the images according to their type, content, origin, and role, and perform a mixed-method analysis of these images' spread on Twitter. Our results show that popular images include both photographs and text rendered as image. Only very few of these popular images included alleged photographic evidence of fraud; and none of the popular photographs had been manipulated. Most images reached a significant portion of their total spread within several hours from their first appearance, and both popular- and less-popular accounts were involved in various stages of their spread.

2022: Protection following BNT162b2 booster in adolescents substantially exceeds that of a fresh 2-dose vaccine
Abstract: None

2022: Special issue on Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI)
Abstract: None

2022: Dataset and Case Studies for Visual Near-Duplicates Detection in the Context of Social Media
Abstract: The massive spread of visual content through the web and social media poses both challenges and opportunities. Tracking visually-similar content is an important task for studying and analyzing social phenomena related to the spread of such content. In this paper, we address this need by building a dataset of social media images and evaluating visual near-duplicates retrieval methods based on image retrieval and several advanced visual feature extraction methods. We evaluate the methods using a large-scale dataset of images we crawl from social media and their manipulated versions we generated, presenting promising results in terms of recall. We demonstrate the potential of this method in two case studies: one that shows the value of creating systems supporting manual content review, and another that demonstrates the usefulness of automatic large-scale data analysis.

2022: Initial protection against SARS-CoV-2 omicron lineage infection in children and adolescents by BNT162b2 in Israel: an observational study
Abstract: None

2022: Barriers and Facilitators to the Implementation of Family-Centered Technology in Complex Care: Feasibility Study
Abstract: Background Care coordination is challenging but crucial for children with medical complexity (CMC). Technology-based solutions are increasingly prevalent but little is known about how to successfully deploy them in the care of CMC. Objective The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility and acceptability of GoalKeeper (GK), an internet-based system for eliciting and monitoring family-centered goals for CMC, and to identify barriers and facilitators to implementation. Methods We used the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) to explore the barriers and facilitators to the implementation of GK as part of a clinical trial of GK in ambulatory clinics at a children’s hospital (NCT03620071). The study was conducted in 3 phases: preimplementation, implementation (trial), and postimplementation. For the trial, we recruited providers at participating clinics and English-speaking parents of CMC<12 years of age with home internet access. All participants used GK during an initial clinic visit and for 3 months after. We conducted preimplementation focus groups and postimplementation semistructured exit interviews using the CFIR interview guide. Participant exit surveys assessed GK feasibility and acceptability on a 5-point Likert scale. For each interview, 3 independent coders used content analysis and serial coding reviews based on the CFIR qualitative analytic plan and assigned quantitative ratings to each CFIR construct (–2 strong barrier to +2 strong facilitator). Results Preimplementation focus groups included 2 parents (1 male participant and 1 female participant) and 3 providers (1 in complex care, 1 in clinical informatics, and 1 in neurology). From focus groups, we developed 3 implementation strategies: education (parents: 5-minute demo; providers: 30-minute tutorial and 5-minute video on use in a clinic visit; both: instructional manual), tech support (in-person, virtual), and automated email reminders for parents. For implementation (April 1, 2019, to December 21, 2020), we enrolled 11 providers (7 female participants, 5 in complex care) and 35 parents (mean age 38.3, SD 7.8 years; n=28, 80% female; n=17, 49% Caucasian; n=16, 46% Hispanic; and n=30, 86% at least some college). One parent-provider pair did not use GK in the clinic visit, and few used GK after the visit. In 18 parent and 9 provider exit interviews, the key facilitators were shared goal setting, GK’s internet accessibility and email reminders (parents), and GK’s ability to set long-term goals and use at the end of visits (providers). A key barrier was GK’s lack of integration into the electronic health record or patient portal. Most parents (13/19) and providers (6/9) would recommend GK to their peers. Conclusions Family-centered technologies like GK are feasible and acceptable for the care of CMC, but sustained use depends on integration into electronic health records. Trial Registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03620071; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03620071

2022: Adaptive search space pruning in complex strategic problems
Abstract: People have limited computational resources, yet they make complex strategic decisions over enormous spaces of possibilities. How do people efficiently search spaces with combinatorially branching paths? Here, we study players’ search strategies for a winning move in a “k-in-a-row” game. We find that players use scoring strategies to prune the search space and augment this pruning by a “shutter” heuristic that focuses the search on the paths emanating from their previous move. This strong pruning has its costs—both computational simulations and behavioral data indicate that the shutter size is correlated with players’ blindness to their opponent’s winning moves. However, simulations of the search while varying the shutter size, complexity levels, noise levels, branching factor, and computational limitations indicate that despite its costs, a narrow shutter strategy is the dominant strategy for most of the parameter space. Finally, we show that in the presence of computational limitations, the shutter heuristic enhances the performance of deep learning networks in these end-game scenarios. Together, our findings suggest a novel adaptive heuristic that benefits search in a vast space of possibilities of a strategic game.

2022: Integrating Policy Summaries with Reward Decomposition for Explaining Reinforcement Learning Agents
Abstract: None

2022: Protection by a Fourth Dose of BNT162b2 against Omicron in Israel
Abstract: Abstract Background On January 2, 2022, Israel began administering a fourth dose of BNT162b2 vaccine to persons 60 years of age or older. Data are needed regarding the effect of the fourth dose on rates of confirmed severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19). Methods Using the Israeli Ministry of Health database, we extracted data on 1,252,331 persons who were 60 years of age or older and eligible for the fourth dose during a period in which the B.1.1.529 (omicron) variant of SARS-CoV-2 was predominant (January 10 through March 2, 2022). We estimated the rate of confirmed infection and severe Covid-19 as a function of time starting at 8 days after receipt of a fourth dose (four-dose groups) as compared with that among persons who had received only three doses (three-dose group) and among persons who had received a fourth dose 3 to 7 days earlier (internal control group). For the estimation of rates, we used quasi-Poisson regression with adjustment for age, sex, demographic group, and calendar day. Results The number of cases of severe Covid-19 per 100,000 person-days (unadjusted rate) was 1.5 in the aggregated four-dose groups, 3.9 in the three-dose group, and 4.2 in the internal control group. In the quasi-Poisson analysis, the adjusted rate of severe Covid-19 in the fourth week after receipt of the fourth dose was lower than that in the three-dose group by a factor of 3.5 (95% confidence interval [CI], 2.7 to 4.6) and was lower than that in the internal control group by a factor of 2.3 (95% CI, 1.7 to 3.3). Protection against severe illness did not wane during the 6 weeks after receipt of the fourth dose. The number of cases of confirmed infection per 100,000 person-days (unadjusted rate) was 177 in the aggregated four-dose groups, 361 in the three-dose group, and 388 in the internal control group. In the quasi-Poisson analysis, the adjusted rate of confirmed infection in the fourth week after receipt of the fourth dose was lower than that in the three-dose group by a factor of 2.0 (95% CI, 1.9 to 2.1) and was lower than that in the internal control group by a factor of 1.8 (95% CI, 1.7 to 1.9). However, this protection waned in later weeks. Conclusions Rates of confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection and severe Covid-19 were lower after a fourth dose of BNT162b2 vaccine than after only three doses. Protection against confirmed infection appeared short-lived, whereas protection against severe illness did not wane during the study period.

2022: Local and Global Explanations of Agent Behavior: Integrating Strategy Summaries with Saliency Maps (Extended Abstract)
Abstract: With advances in reinforcement learning (RL), agents are now being developed in high-stakes application domains such as healthcare and transportation. Explaining the behavior of these agents is challenging, as they act in large state spaces, and their decision-making can be affected by delayed rewards. In this paper, we explore a combination of explanations that attempt to convey the global behavior of the agent and local explanations which provide information regarding the agent's decision-making in a particular state. Specifically, we augment strategy summaries that demonstrate the agent's actions in a range of states with saliency maps highlighting the information it attends to. Our user study shows that intelligently choosing what states to include in the summary (global information) results in an improved analysis of the agents. We find mixed results with respect to augmenting summaries with saliency maps (local information).

2022: Tell me something interesting: Clinical utility of machine learning prediction models in the ICU
Abstract: None

