Recent papers for Orda Ariel:

2024: CFTO: Communication-Aware Fairness in Blockchain Transaction Ordering
Abstract: Blockchain leader-based protocols elect leaders for proposing the next block of transactions. Proposed blocks need to pass a validation routine in order to be added to the blockchain. Proposers may prioritize certain transactions based on their fees or accounts, which enables attackers to gain profits through block building, while simultaneously causing negative impacts on other users. A fair block selection follows a random selection of pending transactions among those that a proposer is aware of. We propose CFTO, a protocol that aims at encouraging fair block selection in a leader-based blockchain network while taking into account real network conditions, such as the network’s topology structure and the forwarding protocol. CFTO offers two main contributions. First, it provides incentives for acting honestly and diminishing malicious and dishonest nodes. To accomplish this, we use a reputation system, whereby each node is given a reputation score based on its actions. Second, it consists of an algorithm that evaluates the proposed blocks based on the zone structure of the network. Furthermore, we adapt the evaluation algorithm to fit the additional order constraints implied in Ethereum transaction ordering. We demonstrate the improved accuracy of CFTO in detecting fair blocks, in terms of increasing the probability of approving fair blocks and decreasing the probability of approving unfair blocks, by implementing experiments and comparing them with Helix (Yakira et al., 2021), a previously proposed consensus algorithm for fair block selection. As part of our experiments, we also compare certain features with those of previous studies.

2023: Energy storage for mitigating grid congestion caused by electric vehicles: A techno-economic analysis using a computationally efficient graph-based methodology
Abstract: None

2023: Death spiral of the legacy grid: A game-theoretic analysis of modern grid defection processes.
Abstract: None

2022: Communication-aware Fairness in Blockchain Transaction Ordering
Abstract: Blockchain leader-based protocols elect leaders for proposing the next block of transactions. Proposed blocks need to pass a validation routine in order to be added to the blockchain. Proposers may prioritize certain transactions based on their fees or accounts. A fair block selection follows a random selection of transactions among pending transactions that a proposer is aware of. The validators may only have partial knowledge of the network transactions making it challenging to validate the random selection. We propose a protocol to encourage fair block selection in a leader-based blockchain network. Our protocol offers two main contributions. First, suggesting an algorithm that evaluates the proposed blocks based on both their transactions’ issuance times and zone structure. Second, providing incentives for acting honestly and diminishing malicious and dishonest nodes. To accomplish this, we use a reputation system, whereby each node is given a reputation score based on its actions (i.e. latest proposals and evaluations). We demonstrate the improved accuracy of our protocol by implementing experiments based on Ethereum topology, comparing it with Helix [1], an existing consensus algorithm for a fair block selection.

2021: Load balancing with JET: just enough tracking for connection consistency
Abstract: Hash-based stateful load-balancers employ connection tracking to avoid per-connection-consistency (PCC) violations that lead to broken connections. In this paper, we propose Just Enough Tracking (JET), a new algorithmic framework that significantly reduces the size of the connection tracking tables for hash-based stateful load-balancers without increasing PCC violations. Under mild assumptions on how backend servers are added, JET adapts consistent hash techniques to identify which connections do not need to be tracked. We provide a model to identify these safe connections and a pluggable framework with appealing theoretical guarantees that supports a variety of consistent hash and connection-tracking modules. We implement JET in two different environments and with four different consistent hash techniques. Using a series of evaluations, we demonstrate that JET requires connection-tracking tables that are an order of magnitude smaller than those required with full connection tracking while preserving PCC and balance properties. In addition, JET often increases the lookup rate due to improved caching.

2021: Effects of Economic Shocks on Power Systems: COVID-19 as a Case Study
Abstract: A central issue that was recently discussed within the power systems community is how the COVID-19 pandemic, and possibly other future pandemics, will affect the integration of renewable energy sources in the long-term. An interesting idea that may shed light on this question is the one of “economic shocks”, according to which, if the integration of renewable sources can be described as a dynamic system operating on time-scales of years, then several months of low consumption may be viewed as a negative impulse signal (a shock), which causes reactions and counter-reactions that evolve in a closed feedback loop. In this paper we explore this idea by means of a regression model, which attempts to reflect the relations between fossil-fuel based generation and day-ahead electricity prices and demand in the European market. The results point out to an interesting phenomenon of instability in fossil-fuel based generation following a shock in consumption, which may support the claim that pandemics and other economic shocks may promote the future integration of renewable energy sources.

2021: On the Persistent-Idle Load Distribution Policy Under Batch Arrivals and Random Service Capacity
Abstract: Practical considerations of present technological uses of load-balancing policies include the capability to function under server heterogeneity and the need to reduce communication overhead associated with information about the queue states. Under such constraints, state-of-the-art loadbalancing approaches either do not cover the full stability region or provide poor performance. To address this challenge, the Persistent-Idle (PI) policy was recently introduced, where servers only update the dispatcher when they become idle, and the dispatcher always sends jobs to the last server that reported being idle. This policy was proved to achieve the stability region and to operate with low communication overhead (in a sense made precise) for Bernoulli arrivals and heterogeneous servers under the assumption that their service capacities are deterministic and constant. Aiming at a broader range of models that are relevant in applications, we consider in this paper batch arrivals and service capacities that vary over time according to stochastic processes, that may have distinct statistical characteristics across servers. Our main theoretical contribution is to show that the stability region is achieved by this policy in the case of two servers. Then, using extensive simulations, the performance is evaluated for a larger number of heterogeneous servers. PI always appears to be stable and achieves good performance while incurring a negligible communication overhead.

2020: Persistent-Idle Load-Distribution
Abstract: A parallel server system is considered in which a dispatcher routes incoming jobs to a fixed number of heterogeneous servers, each with its own queue. Much effort has been previously made to design policies that use limited state information (e.g., the queue lengths in a small subset of the set of servers, or the identity of the idle servers). However, existing policies either do not achieve the stability region or perform poorly in terms of job completion time. We introduce Persistent-Idle (PI), a new, perhaps counterintuitive, load-distribution policy that is designed to work with limited state information. Roughly speaking, PI always routes to the server that has last been idle. Our main result is that this policy achieves the stability region. Because it operates quite differently from existing policies, our proof method differs from standard arguments in the literature. Specifically, large time properties of reflected random walk, along with a careful choice of a Lyapunov function, are combined to obtain a Lyapunov condition over sufficiently long-time intervals. We also provide simulation results that indicate that job completion times under PI are low for different choices of system parameters, compared with several state-of-the-art load-distribution schemes.

2020: Design of a Combinatorial Double Auction for Local Energy Markets
Abstract: None

2020: Efficient distributed solutions for sharing energy resources at the local level: a cooperative game approach
Abstract: Local energy generation as well as local energy storage represent key opportunities for energy transition. Nevertheless, their massive deployment is being delayed mainly due to cost reasons. Sharing resources at the local level enables not only reducing these costs significantly, but also to further optimize the cost of the energy exchanged with providers external to the neighbourhood. A key question that arises while sharing resources is how to distribute the obtained benefits among the various local players that cooperate. In this paper we propose a cooperative game model, where the players are the holders of energy resources (generation and storage); they cooperate in order to reduce their individual electricity costs. We prove that the core of the game is non-empty; i.e., the proposed cooperative game has a stable solution (distribution of the payoffs among the players) for the case where all players participate in a unique community, and no strict subset of players can obtain a better gain by leaving the community.We propose a formulation of this game, based on the theory of linear production games, which lead us to the two main contributions of this paper. First, we propose an efficient (with linear complexity) centralized algorithm for finding a stable payoff. Second, we provide an efficient distributed algorithm that computes an allocation in the core of the game without any requirement for the players to share any private information. The distributed algorithm requires the exchange of intermediate solutions among players. The topology of the network that enables these exchanges is closely related to the performance of the distributed algorithm. We show, by way of simulations, which are the best topologies for these communication graphs.

2020: Discrete and stochastic coalitional storage games
Abstract: As of today, energy storage for residential consumers represents a considerable investment that is not guaranteed to be profitable. Shared investment models in which a group of consumers jointly acquires energy storage have been proposed in the literature to increase the attractiveness of these devices. Such models naturally employ concepts of cooperative game theory. In this paper, we extend the state-of-the-art cooperative game for modeling the shared investment in storage by adding two crucial extensions: stochasticity of the load and discreetness of the storage device capacity. As our goal is to increase storage capacity in the grid, the number of devices that would be acquired by a group of players that cooperate according to our proposed scheme is compared to the number of devices that would be bought by consumers acting individually. Under the same criteria of customer profitability, simulations using real data reveal that our proposed scheme can increase the deployed storage capacity between 100% and 250%.

2020: Combflex: a linear combinatorial auction for local energy markets
Abstract: Local energy markets, platforms in which prosumers in the same Low Voltage network can trade energy among themselves, offer a great opportunity to incentivize the consumption of locally generated energy. Unfortunately, traditionally proposed implementations of local energy markets such as simple double auctions and peer to peer exchanges do not fully exploit the available flexibility in these systems.We design a market mechanism that exploits the characteristics of the players, providing them with expressive bids to represent their flexibility, which we assume is due to energy storage. The proposed market is not obviously manipulable and can be cleared by solving a linear programming problem that grows linearly in the number of participants.Using realistic data, we benchmark the proposed mechanism against sequential auctions and peer to peer exchanges often used in the literature. Our numerical results show that the proposed mechanism outperforms traditional implementations.

2020: Applications of Game Theory to Design and Operation of Modern Power Systems: A Comprehensive Review
Abstract: In this work, we review papers that employ game theoretic tools to study the operation and design of modern electric grids. We consider four topics in this context: energy trading, energy balancing, grid planning, and system reliability, and we demonstrate the advantages of using game-theoretic approaches for analyzing complex interactions among independent players. The results and conclusions provide insights regarding many aspects of design and operation, such as efficient methodologies for expansion planning, cyber-security, and frequency stability, or fair-benefit allocation among players. A central conclusion is that modeling the system from the perspective of one entity with unlimited information and control span is often impractical, so correct modeling of the selfish behavior of independent players may be critical for the development of future power systems. Another conclusion is that correct usage of incentives by appropriate regulation or sophisticated pricing mechanisms may improve the social welfare, and, in several cases, the results obtained are as good as those obtained by central planning. Using an extensive content analysis, we point to several trends in the current research and attempt to identify the research directions that are currently at the focus of the community.

2020: A Game-Theoretic Analysis of Shared/Buy-in Computing Systems
Abstract: High performance computing clusters are increasingly operating under a shared/buy-in paradigm. Under this paradigm, users choose between two tiers of services: shared services and buy-in services. Shared services provide users with access to shared resources for free, while buy-in services allow users to purchase additional buy-in resources in order to shorten job completion time. An important feature of shared/buy-in computing systems consists of making unused buy-in resources available to all other users of the system. Such a feature has been shown to enhance the utilization of resources. Alongside, it creates strategic interactions among users, hence giving rise to a non-cooperative game at the system level. Specifically, each user is faced with the questions of whether to purchase buy-in resources, and if so, how much to pay for them. Under quite general conditions, we establish that a shared/buy-in computing game yields a unique Nash equilibrium, which can be computed in polynomial time. We provide an algorithm for this purpose, which can be implemented in a distributed manner. Moreover, by establishing a connection to the theory of aggregative games, we prove that the game converges to the Nash equilibrium through best response dynamics from any initial state. We justify the underlying game-theoretic assumptions of our model using real data from a computing cluster, and conduct numerical simulations to further explore convergence properties and the influence of system parameters on the Nash equilibrium. In particular, we point out potential unfairness and abuse issues and discuss solution venues.

2020: An Efficient Algorithm for Finding Sets of Optimal Routes
Abstract: In several important routing contexts it is required to identify a set of routes, each of which optimizes a different criterion. For instance, in the context of vehicle routing, one route would minimize the total distance traveled, while other routes would also consider the total travel time or the total incurred cost, or combinations thereof. In general, providing such a set of diverse routes is obtained by finding optimal routes with respect to different sets of weights on the network edges. This can be simply achieved by consecutively executing a standard shortest path algorithm. However, in the case of a large number of weight sets, this may require an excessively large number of executions of such an algorithm, thus incurring a prohibitively large running time. 
We indicate that, quite often, the different edge weights reflect different combinations of some "raw" performance metrics (e.g., delay, cost). In such cases, there is an inherent dependency among the different weights of the same edge. This may well result in some similarity among the shortest routes, each of which being optimal with respect to a specific set of weights. In this study, we aim to exploit such similarity in order to improve the performance of the solution scheme. 
Specifically, we contemplate edge weights that are obtained through different linear combinations of some (``raw'') edge performance metrics. We establish and validate a novel algorithm that efficiently computes a shortest path for each set of edge weights. We demonstrate that, under reasonable assumptions, the algorithm significantly outperforms the standard approach. Similarly to the standard approach, the algorithm iteratively searches for routes, one per set of edge weights; however, instead of executing each iteration independently, it reduces the average running time by skillfully sharing information among the iterations.

2020: Sequential Zeroing: Online Heavy-Hitter Detection on Programmable Hardware
Abstract: F1ows that have exceeded a given percentage of the last sliding window of N packets, denoted as heavy-hitter flows, require special handling, since they may disrupt the service of other flows or may be indicative of malicious traffic. However, even when equipped with a programmable switch, it is unclear how to detect heavy hitters on a per-packet basis, while obeying the stringent switch memory access rates. For instance, existing solutions, such as HashPipe, cannot detect heavy hitters without halving the line rate and do not support sliding windows. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to present heavy-hitter detection solutions that provide per-packet granularity at line-rate performance. We realize this by introducing (1) Modulo sketching, a novel counting algorithm that reuses counters and limits the impact of smaller flows beyond early processing stages; and (2) Sequential Zeroing, a new approach to extending interval-based schemes to sliding window measurements. Our solutions are extensively evaluated, both via simulations and experiments on a Netronome SmartNIC, and demonstrate significant performance gains over the state-of-theart.

2020: LSQ: Load Balancing in Large-Scale Heterogeneous Systems With Multiple Dispatchers
Abstract: Nowadays, the efficiency and even the feasibility of traditional load-balancing policies are challenged by the rapid growth of cloud infrastructure and the increasing levels of server heterogeneity. In such heterogeneous systems with many load-balancers, traditional solutions, such as <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$JSQ$ </tex-math></inline-formula>, incur a prohibitively large communication overhead and detrimental incast effects due to herd behavior. Alternative low-communication policies, such as <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$JSQ(d)$ </tex-math></inline-formula> and the recently proposed <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$JIQ$ </tex-math></inline-formula>, are either unstable or provide poor performance. We introduce the <italic>Local Shortest Queue (</italic> <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$LSQ$ </tex-math></inline-formula><italic>)</italic> family of load balancing algorithms. In these algorithms, each dispatcher maintains its own, local, and possibly outdated view of the server queue lengths, and keeps using <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$JSQ$ </tex-math></inline-formula> on its local view. A small communication overhead is used infrequently to update this local view. We formally prove that as long as the error in these local estimates of the server queue lengths is bounded <italic>in expectation</italic>, the entire system is strongly stable. Finally, in simulations, we show how simple and stable <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$LSQ$ </tex-math></inline-formula> policies exhibit appealing performance and significantly outperform existing low-communication policies, while using an equivalent communication budget. In particular, our simple policies often outperform even <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$JSQ$ </tex-math></inline-formula> due to their reduction of herd behavior. We further show how, by relying on smart servers (<italic>i.e.,</italic> advanced pull-based communication), we can further improve performance and lower communication overhead.

2019: Exploiting Flexibility in Irrigation While Maintaining Optimal Crop Productivity
Abstract: Irrigation in agriculture is a major source of electricity demand flexibility that goes largely unexploited. In this paper we provide a model and a solution to the problem of scheduling irrigation time to minimize electricity costs while satisfying crop water requirements. We propose to apply rebates (aimed to consume renewable energy surplus) that were traditionally offered to the industrial sector, in the agricultural one. Furthermore, an architecture is proposed to overcome some of the limitations that can hinder the adoption of such rebates. The architecture integrates scheduling techniques that have been well studied in the networking literature.Numerical analysis is performed to validate our model and evaluate the proposed scheduling mechanisms, based on real data from a soybean producer and from the corresponding electricity operator. Results indicate that significant cost reductions can be obtained, in particular if the rebates are considered.

2019: The effect of ramp constraints on coalitional storage games
Abstract: Energy storage systems (ESS) are envisaged as a solution to a vast number of problems in Smart Grids, yet their prices are hindering a massive adoption at residential level. To facilitate such massive deployments, we propose the shared investment in a battery among a group of consumers. We obtain conditions under which such collective purchase is profitable and show that the earnings that can be obtained by a community are directly linked to key properties of the battery, ramp constraints in particular, and individual intraday consumption profiles. This is achieved by modeling the investment problem using cooperative game theory. For an extensive class of relevant games, we provide theoretical results guaranteeing the existence of a non-empty core, i.e., a set of payoffs across consumers that are stable against the formation of sub-coalitions. Empirical validation of the results is carried with real consumption data from Pecan Street and characteristics of typical batteries available on the market.

2019: Enforcing Fairness in Blockchain Transaction Ordering
Abstract: None

