Recent papers for Oren Salzman:

2025: From Configuration-Space Clearance to Feature-Space Margin: Sample Complexity in Learning-Based Collision Detection
Abstract: Motion planning is a central challenge in robotics, with learning-based approaches gaining significant attention in recent years. Our work focuses on a specific aspect of these approaches: using machine-learning techniques, particularly Support Vector Machines (SVM), to evaluate whether robot configurations are collision free, an operation termed ``collision detection''. Despite the growing popularity of these methods, there is a lack of theory supporting their efficiency and prediction accuracy. This is in stark contrast to the rich theoretical results of machine-learning methods in general and of SVMs in particular. Our work bridges this gap by analyzing the sample complexity of an SVM classifier for learning-based collision detection in motion planning. We bound the number of samples needed to achieve a specified accuracy at a given confidence level. This result is stated in terms relevant to robot motion-planning such as the system's clearance. Building on these theoretical results, we propose a collision-detection algorithm that can also provide statistical guarantees on the algorithm's error in classifying robot configurations as collision-free or not.

2025: EMOA*: A framework for search-based multi-objective path planning
Abstract: None

2024: Efficient Set Dominance Checks in Multi-Objective Shortest-Path Algorithms via Vectorized Operations
Abstract: In the multi-objective shortest-path problem (MOSP) we are interested in finding paths between two vertices of a graph while considering multiple objectives. A key procedure, which dominates the running time of many state-of-the-art (SOTA) algorithms for MOSP is set dominance checks (SDC). In SDC, we are given a set X of N-dimensional tuples and a new N-dimensional tuple p and we need to determine whether there exists a tuple q in X such that q dominates p (i.e., if every element in q is lower or equal than the corresponding element in p). In this work, we offer a simple-yet-effective approach to perform SDC in a parallel manner, an approach that can be seamlessly integrated with most SOTA MOSP algorithms. Specifically, by storing states in memory dimension-wise and not state-wise, we can exploit vectorized operations offered by ``Single Instruction/Multiple Data'' (SIMD) instructions to efficiently perform SDC on ubiquitous consumer CPUs. Integrating our approach for SDC allows to dramatically improve the runtime of existing MOSP algorithms.

2024: Towards Contact-Aided Motion Planning for Tendon-Driven Continuum Robots
Abstract: Tendon-driven continuum robots (TDCRs), with their flexible backbones, offer the advantage of being used for navigating complex, cluttered environments. However, to do so, they typically require multiple segments, often leadingto complex actuation and control challenges. To this end, we propose a novel approach to navigate cluttered spaces effectively for a single-segment long TDCR which is the simplest topology from a mechanical point of view. Our key insight is that by leveraging contact with the environment we can achieve multiple curvatures without mechanical alterations to the robot. Specifically, we propose a search-based motion planner for a single-segment TDCR. This planner, guided by a specially designed heuristic, discretizes the configuration space and employs a best-first search. The heuristic, crucial for efficient navigation, provides an effective cost-to-go estimation while respecting the kinematic constraints of the TDCR and environmental interactions. We empirically demonstrate the efficiency of our planner—testing over 525 queries in environments with both convex and non-convex obstacles, our planner is demonstrated to have a success rate of about 80% while baselines were not able to obtain a success rate higher than 30%. The difference is attributed to our novel heuristic which is shown to significantly reduce the required search space.

2024: Speeding Up Dominance Checks in Multi-Objective Search: New Techniques and Data Structures
Abstract: In multi-objective search, given a directed graph where each edge is annotated with multiple cost metrics, a start state, and a goal state. We are interested in computing the Pareto frontier, i.e., the set of all undominated paths from the start state to the goal state. Almost all multi-objective search algorithms use dominance checks to determine if a search node can be pruned. Since dominance checks are performed in the inner loop of the multi-objective search, they are the most time-consuming part of it. In this paper, we propose (1) two novel techniques to reduce duplicate dominance checks and (2) a simple data structure that enables more efficient dominance checks. Our experimental results show that combining our proposed techniques and data structure speeds up LTMOA*, a state-of-the-art multi-objective search algorithm, by up to an order of magnitude on road network instances.

2024: Theoretical Study on Multi-objective Heuristic Search
Abstract: This paper provides a theoretical study on Multi-Objective Heuristic Search. We first classify states in the state space into must-expand, maybe-expand, and never-expand states and then transfer these definitions to nodes in the search tree. We then formalize a framework that generalizes A* to Multi-Objective Search. We study different ways to order nodes under this framework and their relation to traditional tie-breaking policies and provide theoretical findings. Finally, we study and empirically compare different ordering functions.

2024: Bounded-Suboptimal Weight-Constrained Shortest-Path Search via Efficient Representation of Paths
Abstract: In the Weight-Constrained Shortest-Path (WCSP) problem, given a graph in which each edge is annotated with a cost and a weight, a start state, and a goal state, the task is to compute a minimum-cost path from the start state to the goal state with weight no larger than a given weight limit. While most existing works have focused on solving the WCSP problem optimally, many real-world situations admit a trade-off between efficiency and a suboptimality bound for the path cost. In this paper, we propose the bounded-suboptimal WCSP algorithm WC-A*pex, which is built on the state-of-the-art approximate bi-objective search algorithm A*pex. WC-A*pex uses an approximate representation of paths with similar costs and weights to compute a (1+ε)-suboptimal path, for a given ε. During its search, WC-A*pex avoids storing all paths explicitly and thereby reduces the search effort while still retaining its (1 + ε)-suboptimality bound. On benchmark road networks, our experimental results show that WC-A*pex with ε = 0.01 (i.e., with a guaranteed suboptimality of at most 1%) achieves a speed-up of up to an order of magnitude over WC-A*, a state-of-the-art WCSP algorithm, and its bounded-suboptimal variant.

2024: Offline Task Assistance Planning on a Graph:Theoretic and Algorithmic Foundations
Abstract: In this work we introduce the problem of task assistance planning where we are given two robots Rtask and Rassist. The first robot, Rtask, is in charge of performing a given task by executing a precomputed path. The second robot, Rassist, is in charge of assisting the task performed by Rtask using on-board sensors. The ability of Rassist to provide assistance to Rtask depends on the locations of both robots. Since Rtask is moving along its path, Rassist may also need to move to provide as much assistance as possible. The problem we study is how to compute a path for Rassist so as to maximize the portion of Rtask's path for which assistance is provided. We limit the problem to the setting where Rassist moves on a roadmap which is a graph embedded in its configuration space and show that this problem is NP-hard. Fortunately, we show that when Rassist moves on a given path, and all we have to do is compute the times at which Rassist should move from one configuration to the following one, we can solve the problem optimally in polynomial time. Together with carefully-crafted upper bounds, this polynomial-time algorithm is integrated into a Branch and Bound-based algorithm that can compute optimal solutions to the problem outperforming baselines by several orders of magnitude. We demonstrate our work empirically in simulated scenarios containing both planar manipulators and UR robots as well as in the lab on real robots.

2024: A-A*pex: Efficient Anytime Approximate Multi-Objective Search
Abstract: In the multi-objective search problem, a typical task is to compute the Pareto frontier, i.e., the set of all undominated solutions. However, computing the entire Pareto frontier can be very time-consuming, and in practice, we often have limited deliberation time. Therefore, this paper focuses on solving the multi-objective search problem with anytime algorithms, which compute an initial approximate frontier quickly and then work to find more solutions until eventually finding the entire Pareto frontier. Existing work has investigated such anytime algorithms for problem instances with only two objectives. In this paper, we propose Anytime A*pex (A-A*pex), which works with any number of objectives. In each iteration of A-A*pex, it runs A*pex, a state-of-the-art approximate multi-objective search algorithm, to compute more solutions. From one iteration to the next, A-A*pex can either reuse its previous search effort or restart from scratch. Our experimental results show that an A-A*pex variant that mixes
reusing its search effort and restarting from scratch yields the best runtime performance. We also show that A-A*pex often computes solutions that collectively approximate the Pareto frontier much better than the solutions found by state-of-the-art multi-objective search algorithms for short deliberation times.

2023: Algorithmic Motion Planning Meets Minimially-Invasive Robotic Surgery
Abstract: Robots for minimally-invasive surgery such as steerable needles and concentric-tube robots have the potential to dramatically alter the way common medical procedures are performed. They can decrease patient-recovery time, speed healing and reduce scarring. However, manually controlling such devices is highly un-intuitive and automatic planning methods are in need. For the automation of such medical procedures to be clinically accepted, it is critical from a patient care, safety, and regulatory perspective to certify the correctness and effectiveness of the motion-planning algorithms involved in procedure automation. In this paper, I survey recent and ongoing work where we develop efficient and effective planning capabilities for medical robots that provide provable guarantees on various planner attributes as well as introduce new and exciting research opportunities in the field.

2023: Towards Effective Multi-Valued Heuristics for Bi-objective Shortest-Path Algorithms via Differential Heuristics
Abstract: In bi-objective graph search, each edge is annotated with a cost pair, where each cost corresponds to an objective to optimize. We are interested in finding all undominated paths from a given start state to a given goal state (called the Pareto front). Almost all existing works of bi-objective search use single-valued heuristics, which use one number for each objective, to estimate the cost between any given state and the goal state. However, single-valued heuristics cannot reflect the trade-offs between the two costs. On the other hand, multi-valued heuristics use a set of pairs to estimate the Pareto front between any given state and the goal state and are more informed than single-valued heuristics. However, they are rarely studied and have yet to be investigated in explicit state spaces by any existing work. In this paper, we are interested in using multi-valued heuristics to improve bi-objective search algorithms in explicit state spaces. More specifically, we generalize Differential Heuristics (DHs), a class of memory-based heuristics for single-objective search, to bi-objective search, resulting in Bi-objective Differential Heuristics (BO-DHs). We propose several techniques to reduce the memory usage and computational overhead of BO-DHs significantly. Our experimental results show that, with suggested improvement and tuned parameters, BO-DHs can reduce the node expansion and runtime of a bi-objective search algorithm by up to an order of magnitude, paving the way for more effective multi-valued heuristics.

2023: Heuristic-Search Approaches for the Multi-Objective Shortest-Path Problem: Progress and Research Opportunities
Abstract: In the multi-objective shortest-path problem we are interested in computing a path, or a set of paths that simultaneously balance multiple cost functions. This problem is important for a diverse range of applications such as transporting hazardous materials considering travel distance and risk. This family of problems is not new with results dating back to the 1970's. Nevertheless, the significant progress made in the field of heuristic search resulted in a new and growing interest in the sub-field of multi-objective search. Consequently, in this paper we review the fundamental problems and techniques common to most algorithms and provide a general overview of the field. We then continue to describe recent work with an emphasis on new challenges that emerged and the resulting research opportunities.

2023: Asymptotically optimal inspection planning via efficient near-optimal search on sampled roadmaps
Abstract: Inspection planning, the task of planning motions for a robot that enable it to inspect a set of points of interest, has applications in domains such as industrial, field, and medical robotics. Inspection planning can be computationally challenging, as the search space over motion plans grows exponentially with the number of points of interest to inspect. We propose a novel method, Incremental Random Inspection-roadmap Search (IRIS), that computes inspection plans whose length and set of successfully inspected points asymptotically converge to those of an optimal inspection plan. IRIS incrementally densifies a motion-planning roadmap using a sampling-based algorithm and performs efficient near-optimal graph search over the resulting roadmap as it is generated. We prove the resulting algorithm is asymptotically optimal under very general assumptions about the robot and the environment. We demonstrate IRIS’s efficacy on a simulated inspection task with a planar five DOF manipulator, on a simulated bridge inspection task with an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), and on a medical endoscopic inspection task for a continuum parallel surgical robot in cluttered human anatomy. In all these systems IRIS computes higher-quality inspection plans orders of magnitudes faster than a prior state-of-the-art method.

2023: Multi-objective Search via Lazy and Efﬁcient Dominance Checks
Abstract: Multi-objective search can be used to model many real-world problems that require ﬁnding Pareto-optimal paths from a speciﬁed start state to a speci-ﬁed goal state, while considering different cost metrics such as distance, time, and fuel. The performance of multi-objective search can be improved by making dominance checking—an operation necessary to determine whether or not a path dominates another—more efﬁcient. This was shown in practice by BOA* , a state-of-the-art bi-objective search algorithm, which outperforms previously existing bi-objective search algorithms in part because it adopts a lazy approach towards dominance checking. EMOA* , a recent multi-objective search algorithm, generalizes BOA* to more-than-two objectives using AVL trees for dominance checking. In this paper, we ﬁrst propose Linear-Time Multi-Objective A* ( LTMOA* ), a multi-objective search algorithm that implements more efﬁcient dominance checking than EMOA* using simple data structures like arrays. We then propose LazyLT-MOA* , which employs a lazier approach by removing dominance checking during node generation. Our experimental results show that LazyLTMOA* outperforms EMOA* by up to an order of magnitude in terms of runtime.

2023: Inspection planning under execution uncertainty
Abstract: Autonomous inspection tasks necessitate path-planning algorithms to efficiently gather observations from points of interest (POI). However, localization errors commonly encountered in urban environments can introduce execution uncertainty, posing challenges to successfully completing such tasks. Unfortunately, existing algorithms for inspection planning do not explicitly account for execution uncertainty, which can hinder their performance. To bridge this gap, we present IRIS-under uncertainty (IRIS-U^2), the first inspection-planning algorithm that offers statistical guarantees regarding coverage, path length, and collision probability. Our approach builds upon IRIS -- our framework for deterministic inspection planning, which is highly efficient and provably asymptotically-optimal. The extension to the much more involved uncertain setting is achieved by a refined search procedure that estimates POI coverage probabilities using Monte Carlo (MC) sampling. The efficacy of IRIS-U^2 is demonstrated through a case study focusing on structural inspections of bridges. Our approach exhibits improved expected coverage, reduced collision probability, and yields increasingly precise statistical guarantees as the number of MC samples grows. Furthermore, we demonstrate the potential advantages of computing bounded sub-optimal solutions to reduce computation time while maintaining statistical guarantees.

2023: Must-Expand Nodes in Multi-Objective Search [Extended Abstract]
Abstract: This extended abstract presents a theoretical analysis of node expansions in Multi-Objective Search. We define three categories of nodes, Must-Expand Nodes, Maybe-Expand Nodes, and Never-Expand Nodes. Our analysis establishes that regardless of the Ordering Function or Multi-Objective Search algorithm used, any Multi-Objective Search algorithm must expand all Must-Expand Nodes, some or none of Maybe-Expand Nodes, and none of Never-Expand Nodes. In addition, we conduct experimental evaluations of various Ordering Functions, revealing that they all expand the same number of nodes and compare their efficiency at finding solutions at various stages of the search.

2023: Terraforming - Environment Manipulation during Disruptions for Multi-Agent Pickup and Delivery
Abstract: In automated warehouses, teams of mobile robots fulfill the packaging process by transferring inventory pods to designated workstations while navigating narrow aisles formed by tightly packed pods. This problem is typically modeled as a Multi-Agent Pickup and Delivery (MAPD) problem, which is then solved by repeatedly planning collision-free paths for agents on a fixed graph, as in the Rolling-Horizon Collision Resolution (RHCR) algorithm. However, existing approaches make the limiting assumption that agents are only allowed to move pods that correspond to their current task, while considering the other pods as stationary obstacles (even though all pods are movable). This behavior can result in unnecessarily long paths which could otherwise be avoided by opening additional corridors via pod manipulation. To this end, we explore the implications of allowing agents the flexibility of dynamically relocating pods. We call this new challenging problem Terraforming MAPD (tMAPD) and develop an RHCR-based approach to tackle it. As the extra flexibility of terraforming comes at a significant computational cost, we utilize this capability judiciously by identifying situations where it could make a significant impact on the solution quality. In particular, we invoke terraforming in response to disruptions that often occur in automated warehouses, e.g., when an item is dropped from a pod or when agents malfunction. Empirically, using our approach for tMAPD, where disruptions are modeled via a stochastic process, we improve throughput by over 10%, reduce the maximum service time (the difference between the drop-off time and the pickup time of a pod) by more than 50%, without drastically increasing the runtime, compared to the MAPD setting.

2023: Toward certifiable optimal motion planning for medical steerable needles
Abstract: Medical steerable needles can follow 3D curvilinear trajectories to avoid anatomical obstacles and reach clinically significant targets inside the human body. Automating steerable needle procedures can enable physicians and patients to harness the full potential of steerable needles by maximally leveraging their steerability to safely and accurately reach targets for medical procedures such as biopsies. For the automation of medical procedures to be clinically accepted, it is critical from a patient care, safety, and regulatory perspective to certify the correctness and effectiveness of the planning algorithms involved in procedure automation. In this paper, we take an important step toward creating a certifiable optimal planner for steerable needles. We present an efficient, resolution-complete motion planner for steerable needles based on a novel adaptation of multi-resolution planning. This is the first motion planner for steerable needles that guarantees to compute in finite time an obstacle-avoiding plan (or notify the user that no such plan exists), under clinically appropriate assumptions. Based on this planner, we then develop the first resolution-optimal motion planner for steerable needles that further provides theoretical guarantees on the quality of the computed motion plan, that is, global optimality, in finite time. Compared to state-of-the-art steerable needle motion planners, we demonstrate with clinically realistic simulations that our planners not only provide theoretical guarantees but also have higher success rates, have lower computation times, and result in higher quality plans.

2023: Efficient Multi-Query Bi-Objective Search via Contraction Hierarchies
Abstract: Contraction Hierarchies (CHs) have been successfully used as a preprocessing technique in single-objective graph search for finding shortest paths. However, only a few existing works on utilizing CHs for bi-objective search exist, and none of them uses CHs to compute Pareto frontiers. This paper proposes an CH-based approach capable of efficiently computing Pareto frontiers for bi-objective search along with several speedup techniques. Specifically, we propose a new preprocessing approach that computes CHs with fewer edges than the existing preprocessing approach, which reduces both the preprocessing times (up to 3x in our experiments) and the query times. Furthermore, we propose a partial-expansion technique, which dramatically speeds up the query times. We demonstrate the advantages of our approach on road networks with 1 to 14 million states. The longest preprocessing time is less than 6 hours, and the average speedup in query times is roughly two orders of magnitude compared to BOA*, a state-of-the-art single-query bi-objective search algorithm.

2023: Introducing Delays in Multi-Agent Path Finding
Abstract: We consider a Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) setting where agents have been assigned a plan, but during its execution some agents are delayed. Instead of replanning from scratch when such a delay occurs, we propose delay introduction, whereby we delay some additional agents so that the remainder of the plan can be executed safely. We show that finding the minimum number of additional delays is APX-hard. However, in practice we can find optimal delay-introductions using Conflict-Based Search for very large numbers of agents, and both planning time and the resulting length of the plan are comparable, and sometimes outperform the state-of-the-art heuristics for replanning.

