Recent papers for Paul Feigin:

2024: Delay Prediction for Managing Multiclass Service Systems: An Investigation of Queueing Theory and Machine Learning Approaches
Abstract: Customer waiting time prediction is key to managing service systems. Predicting how long a customer will wait for service at the time of their arrival can provide important information to the customer and serve as a tool for the operations manager. Recent studies that suggested machine learning algorithms for waiting time prediction as an alternative to the standard queueing theory approaches investigated specific systems with mixed results regarding the superiority of a particular approach. We provide a systematic investigation of common violations of queueing theory assumptions on waiting time prediction in the context of single-queue many-server systems. These violations include nonstationarity, nonexponential service times, state-dependent service times, abandonments, and customers with different priorities. Using different machine learning models as well as queueing-theory-based methods, we seek to determine under what regimes machine learning prediction is to be preferred to queueing-theory-based predictors. Our results suggest that queueing theory models produce comparable and frequently better predictions versus machine learning algorithms at a much lower computational cost. Under other assumptions, such as high priority for a specific type of customer, machine learning predictions may outperform queueing theory predictions. Our results may guide the selection of a delay prediction approach for service systems.

2022: Heterogeneous heterogeneity: Comment on Regenwetter et al. (2022).
Abstract: None

2021: 32. Host Immune-Protein Signature Combining TRAIL, IP-10 and CRP for Early and Accurate Prediction of Severe COVID-19 Outcome
Abstract: Abstract Background Accurately identifying COVID-19 patients at-risk to deteriorate remains challenging. Dysregulated immune responses impact disease progression and development of life-threatening complications. Tools integrating host immune-protein expression have proven useful in determining infection etiology and hold potential for prognosticating disease severity. Methods Adults with COVID-19 were enrolled at medical centers in Israel, Germany, and the United States (Figure 1). Severe outcome was defined as intensive care unit admission, non-invasive or invasive ventilation, or death. Tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL), interferon gamma inducible protein-10 (IP-10) and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured using an analyzer providing values within 15 minutes (MeMed Key®). A signature indicating the likelihood of severe outcome was derived generating a score (0-100). Description of derivation cohort RT-PCR, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Results Between March and November 2020, 518 COVID-19 patients were enrolled, of whom 394 were eligible, 29% meeting a severe outcome. Age ranged between 19-98 (median 61.5), with 59.1% male. Patients meeting severe outcomes exhibited higher levels of CRP and IP-10 and lower levels of TRAIL (Figure 2; p < 0.001). Likelihood of severe outcome increased significantly (p < 0.001) with higher scores. The signature’s area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was 0.86 (95% confidence interval: 0.81-0.91). Performance was not confounded by age, sex, or comorbidities and was superior to IL-6 (AUC 0.77; p = 0.033) and CRP (AUC 0.78; p < 0.001). Clinical deterioration proximal to blood draw was associated with higher signature score. Scores of patients meeting a first outcome over 3 days after blood draw were significantly (p < 0.001) higher than scores of non-severe patients (Figure 3). Moreover, the signature differentiated patients who further deteriorated after meeting a severe outcome from those who improved (p = 0.004) and projected 14-day survival probabilities (p < 0.001; Figure 4). TRAIL, IP-10, CRP and the severity signature score are differentially expressed in severe and non-severe COVID-19 infection Dots represent patients and boxes denote median and interquartile range (IQR) The signature score of patients meeting a severe outcome on or after the day of blood draw is significantly (p < 0.001) higher than the signature score of non-severe patients. Dots represents patients and boxes denote median and IQR Kaplan-Meier survival estimates for signature score bins Conclusion The derived signature combined with a rapid measurement platform has potential to serve as an accurate predictive tool for early detection of COVID-19 patients at risk for severe outcome, facilitating timely care escalation and de-escalation and appropriate resource allocation. Disclosures Alon Angel, n/a, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Niv Samuel Mastboim, BSc, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Oded Shaham, PhD, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Tahel Ilan Ber, MD, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Roy Navon, MSc, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Einav Simon, PhD, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Michal Rosenberg, PhD, MeMed (Employee) Yael Israeli, PhD, MeMed (Employee) Mary Hainrichson, PhD, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Noa Avni, PhD, MeMed (Employee) Eran Reiner, MD, MeMed (Employee) Kfir Oved, MD, PhD, MeMed (Board Member, Employee, Shareholder) Ilya Kagan, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Shaul Lev, M.D, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Dror Diker, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Amir Jarjou’i, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Ramzi Kurd, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Guy Danziger, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Cihan Papan, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Sergey Motov, MD, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Maanit Shapira, Ph.D, MeMed (Scientific Research Study Investigator) Tanya Gottlieb, PhD, MeMed (Employee, Shareholder) Eran Eden, PhD, MeMed (Board Member, Employee, Shareholder)

2021: An immune-protein signature combining TRAIL, IP-10 and CRP for accurate prediction of severe COVID-19 outcome
Abstract: BACKGROUND Accurately identifying COVID-19 patients at-risk to deteriorate remains challenging. Tools integrating host-protein expression have proven useful in determining infection etiology and hold potential for prognosticating disease severity. METHODS Adults with COVID-19 were recruited at medical centers in Israel, Germany, and the United States. Severe outcome was defined as intensive care unit admission, non-invasive or invasive ventilation, or death. Tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) and interferon gamma inducible protein-10 (IP-10; also known as CXCL10) and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured using an analyzer providing values within 15 minutes. A signature indicating the likelihood of severe outcome was derived generating a score (0-100). Patients were assigned to 4 score bins. RESULTS Between March and November 2020, 518 COVID-19 patients were enrolled, of whom 394 were eligible, 29% meeting a severe outcome. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of the signature was 0.86 (95% confidence interval: 0.81-0.91). Performance was not confounded by age, sex, or comorbidities and superior to IL-6 (AUC 0.77; p = 0.033) and CRP (AUC 0.78; p < 0.001). Likelihood of severe outcome increased significantly (p < 0.001) with higher scores. The signature differentiated patients who further deteriorated after meeting a severe outcome from those who improved (p = 0.004) and projected 14-day survival probabilities (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION The derived immune-protein signature combined with a rapid measurement platform is an accurate predictive tool for early detection of COVID-19 patients at-risk for severe outcome, facilitating timely care escalation and de-escalation and appropriate resource allocation. FUNDING MeMed funded the study

2020: Correction to: Random Coefficient Autoregressive Processes: a Markov Chain Analysis of Stationarity and Finiteness of Moments by Paul D. Feigin and Richard L. Tweedie J. Time Series Anal., Vol. 6, No. 1 (1985)
Abstract: None

2019: Erlang-S: A Data-Based Model of Servers in Queueing Networks
Abstract: Classical queueing theory has typically focused on customers, and server availability has been taken for granted. However, data accessibility and the emergence of complex service systems, for examp...

2019: Expert panel diagnosis demonstrated high reproducibility as reference standard in infectious diseases.
Abstract: None

2017: Nonparametric Tests and Nested Sequential Sampling Plans for Change-Point Detection
Abstract: None

2017: Nonparametric Tests and Nested Sequential Sampling Plans for Change-Point Detection
Abstract: None

2015: A Novel Host-Proteome Signature for Distinguishing between Acute Bacterial and Viral Infections
Abstract: Bacterial and viral infections are often clinically indistinguishable, leading to inappropriate patient management and antibiotic misuse. Bacterial-induced host proteins such as procalcitonin, C-reactive protein (CRP), and Interleukin-6, are routinely used to support diagnosis of infection. However, their performance is negatively affected by inter-patient variability, including time from symptom onset, clinical syndrome, and pathogens. Our aim was to identify novel viral-induced host proteins that can complement bacterial-induced proteins to increase diagnostic accuracy. Initially, we conducted a bioinformatic screen to identify putative circulating host immune response proteins. The resulting 600 candidates were then quantitatively screened for diagnostic potential using blood samples from 1002 prospectively recruited patients with suspected acute infectious disease and controls with no apparent infection. For each patient, three independent physicians assigned a diagnosis based on comprehensive clinical and laboratory investigation including PCR for 21 pathogens yielding 319 bacterial, 334 viral, 112 control and 98 indeterminate diagnoses; 139 patients were excluded based on predetermined criteria. The best performing host-protein was TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) (area under the curve [AUC] of 0.89; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.86 to 0.91), which was consistently up-regulated in viral infected patients. We further developed a multi-protein signature using logistic-regression on half of the patients and validated it on the remaining half. The signature with the highest precision included both viral- and bacterial-induced proteins: TRAIL, Interferon gamma-induced protein-10, and CRP (AUC of 0.94; 95% CI, 0.92 to 0.96). The signature was superior to any of the individual proteins (P<0.001), as well as routinely used clinical parameters and their combinations (P<0.001). It remained robust across different physiological systems, times from symptom onset, and pathogens (AUCs 0.87-1.0). The accurate differential diagnosis provided by this novel combination of viral- and bacterial-induced proteins has the potential to improve management of patients with acute infections and reduce antibiotic misuse.

2014: Adaptive Designs to Maximize Power in Clinical Trials with Multiple Treatments
Abstract: Abstract We consider a clinical trial with three competing treatments and study designs that allocate subjects sequentially in order to maximize the power of relevant tests. Two different criteria are considered: the first is to find the best treatment and the second is to order all three. The power converges to one in an exponential rate and we find the optimal allocation that maximizes this rate by large deviation theory. For the first criterion the optimal allocation has the plausible property that it assigns a small fraction of subjects to the inferior treatment. The optimal allocation depends heavily on the unknown parameters and, therefore, in order to implement it, a sequential adaptive scheme is considered. At each stage of the trial the parameters are estimated and the next subject is allocated according to the estimated optimal allocation. We study the asymptotic properties of this design by large deviations theory and the small sample behavior by simulations. Our results demonstrate that, unlike the two-treatments case, adaptive design can provide significant improvement in power.

2013: Unbiased Variance Estimators in the Parametric Case
Abstract: None

2013: Unbiased Variance Estimators in the Parametric Case
Abstract: None

2012: Nonparametric Change-Point Problems and Optimal Nested Plans
Abstract: Abstract We consider nonparametric methods for detecting a change-point in the distribution of a sequence of observations based on using nested plans. Using nonparametric tests for the inner test statistic, we develop nested plans providing fast detection of a change. Moreover, the methodology allows the computation of exact (non-asymptotic) expressions for the mean and for the standard deviation of the run length for the in-control time to false alarm. Special attention is given to finding optimal nonparametric nested plans.

2012: Approximate Confidence Limits for the Difference between Parameters of Two Pólya Distributions
Abstract: The problem of calculating approximate confidence limits for the difference between success probability parameters of two Pólya distributions is solved for the first time. We suggest some new methods for determining these approximate confidence limits and consider their application to special cases: namely for the binomial and hypergeometric distributions. The various approximate confidence limits are evaluated and compared.

2010: Bolus Guide: A Novel Insulin Bolus Dosing Decision Support Tool Based on Selection of Carbohydrate Ranges
Abstract: Background: Optimal continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) therapy emphasizes the relationship between insulin dose and carbohydrate consumption. One widely used tool (bolus calculator) requires the user to enter discrete carbohydrate values; however, many patients might not estimate carbohydrates accurately. This study assessed carbohydrate estimation accuracy in type 1 diabetes CSII users and compared simulated blood glucose (BG) outcomes using the bolus calculator and the “bolus guide,” an alternative system based on ranges of carbohydrate load. Methods: Patients (n = 60) estimated the carbohydrate load of a representative sample of meals of known carbohydrate value. The estimated error distribution [coefficient of variation (CV)] was the basis for a computer simulation (n = 1.6 million observations) of insulin recommendations for the bolus guide and bolus calculator, translated into outcome blood glucose (OBG) ranges (=60, 61–200, >201 mg/dl). Patients (n = 30) completed questionnaires assessing satisfaction with the bolus guide. Results: The CV of typical meals ranged from 27.9% to 44.5%. The percentage of simulated OBG for the calculator and the bolus guide in the <60 mg/dl range were 20.8% and 17.2%, respectively, and 13.8% and 15.8%, respectively, in the >200 mg/dl range. The mean and median scores of all bolus guide satisfaction items and ease of learning and use were 4.17 and 4.2, respectively (of 5.0). Conclusion: The bolus guide recommendation based on carbohydrate range selection is substantially similar to the calculator based on carbohydrate point estimation and appears to be highly accepted by type 1 diabetes insulin pump users.

2010: Designing a call center with an IVR (Interactive Voice Response)
Abstract: None

2010: Test for Equality of Baseline Hazard Functions for Correlated Survival Data using Frailty Models
Abstract: In this work we provide a new class of test statistics for hypothesis testing of the equality of the baseline hazard functions for correlated survival data under frailty models. The asymptotic distribution of the test statistics is investigated theoretically under the null hypothesis and certain local alternatives. We also provide a simple variance estimator. The properties of the test statistics, under finite sample size, is studied by an extensive simulation study and we verify the control of Type I error and our proposed sample size formula. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work for comparing the baseline hazard functions of correlated survival outcomes with covariates and frailty models. The utility of our proposed estimating technique is illustrated by the analysis of the call center data of an Israeli commercial company that processes up to 100,000 calls per day and the analysis of the breast cancer data of the Washington Ashkenazi Kin-Cohort family study.

2009: Workload forecasting for a call center: Methodology and a case study
Abstract: Today's call center managers face multiple operational decision-making tasks. One of the most common is determining the weekly staffing levels to ensure customer satisfaction and meeting their needs while minimizing service costs. An initial step for producing the weekly schedule is forecasting the future system loads which involves predicting both arrival counts and average service times. We introduce an arrival count model which is based on a mixed Poisson process approach. The model is applied to data from an Israeli Telecom company call center. In our model, we also consider the effect of events such as billing on the arrival process and we demonstrate how to incorporate them as exogenous variables in the model. After obtaining the forecasted system load, in large call centers, a manager can choose to apply the QED (Quality-Efficiency Driven) regime's "square-root staffing" rule in order to balance the offered-load per server with the quality of service. Implementing this staffing rule requires that the forecasted values of the arrival counts and average service times maintain certain levels of precision. We develop different goodness of fit criteria that help determine our model's practical performance under the QED regime. These show that during most hours of the day the model can reach desired precision levels.

2009: A double-blind, delayed-start trial of rasagiline in Parkinson's disease.
Abstract: BACKGROUND
A therapy that slows disease progression is the major unmet need in Parkinson's disease.


METHODS
In this double-blind trial, we examined the possibility that rasagiline has disease-modifying effects in Parkinson's disease. A total of 1176 subjects with untreated Parkinson's disease were randomly assigned to receive rasagiline (at a dose of either 1 mg or 2 mg per day) for 72 weeks (the early-start group) or placebo for 36 weeks followed by rasagiline (at a dose of either 1 mg or 2 mg per day) for 36 weeks (the delayed-start group). To determine a positive result with either dose, the early-start treatment group had to meet each of three hierarchical end points of the primary analysis based on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS, a 176-point scale, with higher numbers indicating more severe disease): superiority to placebo in the rate of change in the UPDRS score between weeks 12 and 36, superiority to delayed-start treatment in the change in the score between baseline and week 72, and noninferiority to delayed-start treatment in the rate of change in the score between weeks 48 and 72.


RESULTS
Early-start treatment with rasagiline at a dose of 1 mg per day met all end points in the primary analysis: a smaller mean (+/-SE) increase (rate of worsening) in the UPDRS score between weeks 12 and 36 (0.09+/-0.02 points per week in the early-start group vs. 0.14+/-0.01 points per week in the placebo group, P=0.01), less worsening in the score between baseline and week 72 (2.82+/-0.53 points in the early-start group vs. 4.52+/-0.56 points in the delayed-start group, P=0.02), and noninferiority between the two groups with respect to the rate of change in the UPDRS score between weeks 48 and 72 (0.085+/-0.02 points per week in the early-start group vs. 0.085+/-0.02 points per week in the delayed-start group, P<0.001). All three end points were not met with rasagiline at a dose of 2 mg per day, since the change in the UPDRS score between baseline and week 72 was not significantly different in the two groups (3.47+/-0.50 points in the early-start group and 3.11+/-0.50 points in the delayed-start group, P=0.60).


CONCLUSIONS
Early treatment with rasagiline at a dose of 1 mg per day provided benefits that were consistent with a possible disease-modifying effect, but early treatment with rasagiline at a dose of 2 mg per day did not. Because the two doses were associated with different outcomes, the study results must be interpreted with caution. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00256204.)

