Recent papers for Reuven Bar-Yehuda:

2020: Distributed Approximation on Power Graphs
Abstract: We investigate graph problems in the following setting: we are given a graph G and we are required to solve a problem on G2. While we focus mostly on exploring this theme in the distributed CONGEST model, we also show new results and surprising connections to the centralized model of computation. In the CONGEST model, it is natural to expect that problems on G2 would be quite difficult to solve efficiently on G, due to congestion. However, we show that the picture is both more complicated and more interesting. Specifically, we encounter two phenomena acting in opposing directions: (i) slowdown due to congestion and (ii) speedup due to structural properties of G2. We demonstrate these two phenomena via two fundamental graph problems, namely, Minimum Vertex Cover (MVC) and Minimum Dominating Set (MDS). Among our many contributions, the highlights are the following. (1) In the CONGEST model, we show an O(n/∈)-round (1 + ∈)-approximation algorithm for MVC on G2, whereas no o(n2)-round algorithm is known for any better-than-2 approximation for MVC on G. (2) We show a centralized polynomial time 5/3-approximation algorithm for MVC on G2, whereas a better-than-2 approximation is UGC-hard for G. (3) In contrast, for MDS, in the CONGEST model, we show an [EQUATION] lower bound for a constant approximation factor for MDS on G2, whereas an Ω(n2) lower bound for MDS on G is known only for exact computation.

2018: Growing Half-Balls: Minimizing Storage and Communication Costs in Content Delivery Networks
Abstract: The dynamic content distribution problem addresses the trade-off between storage and delivery costs in modern virtual content delivery networks (CDNs). That is, a video file can be stored in multip...

2018: Generalized Algorithms for Bounded Integer Programs with Two Variables per Constraint
Abstract: None

2017: Distributed Approximation of Maximum Independent Set and Maximum Matching
Abstract: We present a simple distributed Δ-approximation algorithm for maximum weight independent set (MaxIS) in the CONGEST model which completes in O(MIS ⋅ log W) rounds, where Δ is the maximum degree, MIS is the number of rounds needed to compute a maximal independent set (MIS) on G, and W is the maximum weight of a node. Plugging in the best known algorithm for MIS gives a randomized solution in O(log n log W) rounds, where n is the number of nodes. We also present a deterministic O(Δ +log* n)-round algorithm based on coloring. We then show how to use our MaxIS approximation algorithms to compute a 2-approximation for maximum weight matching without incurring any additional round penalty in the CONGEST model. We use a known reduction for simulating algorithms on the line graph while incurring congestion, but we show our algorithm is part of a broad family of local aggregation algorithms for which we describe a mechanism that allows the simulation to run in the CONGEST model without an additional overhead. Next, we show that for maximum weight matching, relaxing the approximation factor to (2+ε) allows us to devise a distributed algorithm requiring O((log Δ)/(log logΔ)) rounds for any constant ε>0. For the unweighted case, we can even obtain a (1+ε)-approximation in this number of rounds. These algorithms are the first to achieve the provably optimal round complexity with respect to dependency on Δ.

2017: A Distributed (2 + ε)-Approximation for Vertex Cover in O(log Δ / ε log log Δ) Rounds
Abstract: We present a simple deterministic distributed (2 + ε)-approximation algorithm for minimum-weight vertex cover, which completes in O(log Δ/εlog log Δ) rounds, where Δ is the maximum degree in the graph, for any ε > 0 that is at most O(1). For a constant ε, this implies a constant approximation in O(log Δ/log log Δ) rounds, which contradicts the lower bound of [KMW10].

2016: A Distributed (2+ε)-Approximation for Vertex Cover in O(logδ/ε log log δ) Rounds
Abstract: We present a simple deterministic distributed (2+ε) approximation algorithm for minimum weight vertex cover, which completes in O(logδ/εlog logδ) rounds, where δ is the maximum degree in the graph, for any ε > 0 which is at most O(1). For a constant ε, this implies a constant approximation in Ologδ/log log δ) rounds, which contradicts the lower bound of [KMW10].

2016: A Distributed $(2+\epsilon)$-Approximation for Vertex Cover in $O(\log{\Delta}/\epsilon\log\log{\Delta})$ Rounds
Abstract: We present a simple deterministic distributed $(2+\epsilon)$-approximation algorithm for minimum weight vertex cover, which completes in $O(\log{\Delta}/\epsilon\log\log{\Delta})$ rounds, where $\Delta$ is the maximum degree in the graph, for any $\epsilon>0$ which is at most $O(1)$. For a constant $\epsilon$, this implies a constant approximation in $O(\log{\Delta}/\log\log{\Delta})$ rounds, which contradicts the lower bound of [KMW10].

2016: Fe b 20 16 A Distributed ( 2 + ǫ )-Approximation for Vertex Cover in O ( log ∆ ǫ log log ∆ )
Abstract: We present a simple deterministic distributed (2 + ǫ)-approximation algorithm for minimum weight vertex cover, which completes in O(log ∆/ǫ log log ∆) rounds, where ∆ is the maximum degree in the graph, for any ǫ > 0 which is at most O(1). For a constant ǫ, this implies a constant approximation in O(log ∆/ log log ∆) rounds, which contradicts the lower bound of [KMW10]. ∗Technion, Department of Computer Science, reuven@cs.technion.ac.il, ckeren@cs.technion.ac.il, gregorys@cs.technion.ac.il. Supported in part by the Israel Science Foundation (grant 1696/14).

2015: 1.5-Approximation Algorithm for the 2-Convex Recoloring Problem
Abstract: None

2014: Covering Polygons with Squares
Abstract: An orthogonal polygon is one that has only horizontal and vertical edges. A polygon is simple if it has no holes. We study the problem of covering a polygon with minimum number of squares, possibly overlapping, all internal to the polygon. This problem has applications in VLSI and computer vision. First, we study 'the problem for simple polygons. No algorithm polynomial in the number of polygon vertices n, and the output size OPT, was previously known. Our main result is an 0 (n logn +OPT) algorithm. Recently, Aupperle, Conn, Keil, and O'Rourke presented an 0 (p 1.S) algorithm, where p is the number of pixels in a bit-map representation. Observe that p > n and may even be exponential in n. Moreover, a simple implementation of our algorithm to bit-map representation, yields 0 (P) time complexity. We also study non-simple polygons. Aupperle et. al. proved that this problem is NP-Hard. Thus, it is natural to look for approximation algorithms. There are some local-minima hueristic algorithms in the literature. We show that any local-minima algorithm is a factor 4 approximation. In addition, we present a factor 2 approximation algorithm. Denote by h, the number of holes in the polygon. The time complexity of our algorithm is 0 (n logn +OPT +h ·log3n ). In fact our algorithm guarantees a cover of size ~OPT +h. II< The research was supported in part by Technion V.P.R. Fund Albert Einstein Research Found. T ec hn io n C om pu te r Sc ie nc e D ep ar tm en t T eh ni ca l R ep or t C S0 54 1 19 89

2013: A Constant Factor Approximation Algorithm for the Storage Allocation Problem
Abstract: None

2013: A note on multicovering with disks
Abstract: None

2012: Growing Half-Balls: Minimizing Storage and Communication Costs in CDNs
Abstract: None

2011: Randomized Algorithms for the Loop Cutset Problem
Abstract: None

2010: An Extension of the Nemhauser--Trotter Theorem to Generalized Vertex Cover with Applications
Abstract: The Nemhauser-Trotter theorem provides an algorithm which is frequently used as a subroutine in approximation algorithms for the classical Vertex Cover problem. In this paper we present an extension of this theorem so it fits a more general variant of Vertex Cover, namely, the Generalized Vertex Cover problem, where edges are allowed not to be covered at a certain predetermined penalty. We show that many applications of the original Nemhauser-Trotter theorem can be applied using our extension to Generalized Vertex Cover. These applications include a $(2-2/d)$-approximation algorithm for graphs of bounded degree $d$, a polynomial-time approximation scheme (PTAS) for planar graphs, a $(2-\lg\lg n/2\lg n)$-approximation algorithm for general graphs, and a $2k$ kernel for the parameterized Generalized Vertex Cover problem.

2010: Bandwidth allocation in cellular networks with multiple interferences
Abstract: We study the problem of bandwidth allocation with multiple interferences. In this problem the input consists of a set of users and a set of base stations. Each user has a list of requests, each consisting of a base station, a frequency demand, and a profit that may be gained by scheduling this request. The goal is to find a maximum profit set of user requests S that satisfies the following conditions: (i) S contains at most one request per user, (ii) the frequency sets allotted to requests in S that correspond to the same base station are pairwise non-intersecting, and (iii) the QoS received by any user at any frequency is reasonable according to an interference model. In this paper we consider two variants of bandwidth allocation with multiple interferences. In the first each request specifies a demand that can be satisfied by any subset of frequencies that is large enough. In the second each request specifies a specific frequency interval. Furthermore, we consider two interference models, multiplicative and additive. We show that these problems are extremely hard to approximate if the interferences depend on both the interfered and the interfering base stations. On the other hand, we provide constant factor approximation algorithms for both variants of bandwidth allocation with multiple interferences for the case where the interferences depend only on the interfering base stations. We also consider a restrictive special case that is closely related to the Knapsack problem. We show that this special case is NP-hard and that it admits an FPTAS.

2009: The maximum weight hierarchy matching problem
Abstract: None

2009: Extension of the Nemhauser and Trotter Theorem to Generalized Vertex Cover with Applications
Abstract: None

2008: 9-Approximation Algorithm for Sorting Buffers
Abstract: The Sorting Buffers problem is motivated by many applications in manufacturing processes and computer science, among them car-painting and file servers architecture. The input is a sequence of items of various types. All the items must be processed, one by one, by a service station. We are given a random-access sorting buffer with a limited capacity. Whenever a new item arrives it may be moved directly to the service station or stored in the buffer. Also, at any time items can be removed from the buffer and assigned to the service station. Our goal is to give the service station a sequence of items with minimum type transitions. We generalize the problem to allow items with different sizes and type transitions with different costs. We give a polynomial-time 9approximation algorithm for the maximization variant of this problem, which improves the best previously known 20-approximation algorithm.

2008: Cell Selection in 4G Cellular Networks
Abstract: Cell selection is the process of determining the cells that provide service to each mobile station. Optimizing these processes is an important step towards maximizing the utilization of current and future cellular networks. In this paper we study the potential benefit of global cell selection versus the current local mobile SNR-based decision protocol. In particular, we study the new possibility that is feasible in OFDMA-based systems, of satisfying the minimal demand of a mobile station simultaneously by more than one base station. We formalize the problem as an optimization problem, called the all-or-nothing demand maximization problem, and show that when the demand of a single mobile station can exceed the capacity of a base station, this problem is not only NP-hard but also cannot be approximated within any reasonable factor. In contrast, under the very practical assumption that the maximum required bandwidth of a single mobile station is at most an r-fraction of the capacity of a base station, we present two different algorithms for cell selection. The first algorithm guarantees a satisfaction of at least a 1- r r fraction of an optimal assignment, where a mobile station can be covered simultaneously by more than one base station. The second algorithm guarantees a satisfaction of at least a 1-r/1-r fraction of an optimal assignment, while every mobile station is covered by at most one base station. Using an extensive simulation study we show that the cell selections determined by our algorithms achieve a better utilization of high-loaded capacity-constrained future 4G networks than the current SNR- based scheme. Specifically, our algorithms are shown to obtain up to 20% better usage of the network's capacity, in comparison with the current cell selection algorithms.

