Recent papers for Reuven Cohen:

2023: On the Protection of a High Performance Load Balancer Against SYN Attacks**This is an extended journal version of [2]
Abstract: SYN flooding is a simple and effective denial-of-service attack. In this attack, many TCP SYN requests are sent to the targeted server, in an attempt to consume its resources and make it unresponsive to legitimate traffic. While SYN attacks have traditionally targeted web servers, they are also known to be very harmful to intermediate cloud devices, and in particular to stateful load balancers (LBs). Fighting against a SYN attack without negatively affecting legitimate connections is not easy, especially if the LB needs to perform frequent server pool updates during the attack, which is very likely since attacks can often last for many hours or even days. This paper is the first to propose LB schemes that guarantee high throughput of one million connections per second, while supporting a high pool update rate without breaking connections and fighting against a high rate SYN attack. Using an analysis and a proof of concept, we show that the LB can handle up to 10 million fake SYNs per second when the RTT is 10ms, and up to 5 million fake SYNs per second when the RTT is 20ms.

2022: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Scheduling and Power Allocation in a 5G Urban Mesh
Abstract: —We study the problem of routing and scheduling of real-time ﬂows over a multi-hop millimeter wave (mmWave) mesh. We develop a model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm that determines which subset of the mmWave links should be activated during each time slot and using what power level. The proposed algorithm, called Adaptive Activator RL (AARL), can handle a variety of network topologies, network loads, and interference models, as well as adapt to different workloads. We demonstrate the operation of AARL on several topologies: a small topology with 10 links, a moderately-sized mesh with 48 links, and a large topology with 96 links. For each topology, the results of AARL are compared to those of a greedy scheduling algorithm. AARL is shown to outperform the greedy algorithm in two aspects. First, its schedule obtains higher goodput. Second, and even more importantly, while the run time of the greedy algorithm renders it impractical for real-time scheduling, the run time of AARL is suitable for meeting the time constraints of typical 5G networks.

2022: Using Deep Reinforcement Learning for mmWave Real-Time Scheduling
Abstract: We study the problem of real-time scheduling in a multi-hop millimeter-wave (mmWave) mesh. We develop a model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm called Adaptive Activator RL (AARL), which determines the subset of mmWave links that should be activated during each time slot and the power level for each link. The most important property of AARL is its ability to make scheduling decisions within the strict time frame constraints of typical 5G mmWave networks. AARL can handle a variety of network topologies, network loads, and interference models, it can also adapt to different workloads. We demonstrate the operation of AARL on several topologies: a small topology with 10 links, a moderately-sized mesh with 48 links, and a large topology with 96 links. We show that for each topology, we compare the throughput obtained by AARL to that of a benchmark algorithm called RPMA (Residual Profit Maximizer Algorithm). The most important advantage of AARL compared to RPMA is that it is much faster and can make the necessary scheduling decisions very rapidly during every time slot, while RPMA cannot. In addition, the quality of the scheduling decisions made by AARL outperforms those made by RPMA.

2021: Efficient Service Chain Verification Using Sketches and Small Samples
Abstract: A service function chain defines an ordered or partially ordered set of abstract service functions and ordering constraints that must be applied to packet flows as a result of classification. Service chain verification is an important logic, which should verify that each flow indeed traverses the intended set of services, and in the desired order. In this paper we address this service chain verification problem in a new way. The main idea is to convert each service chain verification instance to its “equivalent set-expression cardinality equation,” and to use statistical algorithms to verify that each equation is satisfied.

2021: Hardware SYN Attack Protection For High Performance Load Balancers
Abstract: SYN flooding is a simple and effective denial-of-service attack, in which an attacker sends many SYN requests to a target's server in an attempt to consume server resources and make it unresponsive to legitimate traffic. While SYN attacks have traditionally targeted web servers, they are also known to be very harmful to intermediate cloud devices, and in particular to stateful load balancers (LBs). We propose LB schemes that guarantee high throughput of one million connections per second, while supporting a high pool update rate without breaking connections, and fighting against a high rate SYN attack, of up to 10 million fake SYNs per second.

2021: 1 2 M ay 2 02 1 Changeover phenomenon in randomly colored Potts model
Abstract: A hybrid Potts model where a random concentration p of the spins assume q0 states and a random concentration 1−p of the spins assume q > q0 states is introduced. It is known that when the system is homogeneous, with an integer spin number q0 or q, it undergoes a second or a first order transition, respectively. It is argued that there is a concentration p∗ such that the transition nature of the model is changed at p∗. This idea is demonstrated analytically and by simulations for two different types of interaction: the usual square lattice nearest neighboring and the mean field all-to-all interaction. Exact expressions for the second order critical line in concentration-temperature parameter space of the mean field model together with some other related critical properties, are derived.

2021: Alternating quarantine for sustainable epidemic mitigation
Abstract: None

2020: When the Network of a Smart City Is Not So Smart
Abstract: In this paper we show that a simple repeated (ON- OFF) jamming attack on a wireless distance vector protocol can have a global effect on the network and be as harmful as a sophisticated Network layer attack. This attack takes advantage of the nodes’ limited awareness of topological changes when distance vector routing is used. To present the attack in a specific context, we consider the new RPL protocol, which plays an important role in the context of Smart City and Smart Utility networks. We describe the RPL approach to recover from link failures and show that this protocol is susceptible to the proposed attack. We also present a remedy technique and show that it can significantly alleviate the impact of the proposed attack.

2020: A Dynamic and Flexible Architecture Based on UAVS for Border Security and Safety
Abstract: None

2020: Reply to: Asymptotic scaling describing signal propagation in complex networks
Abstract: None

2020: Response times of nodes in a complex network environment -- two potential derivation tracks
Abstract: The spread of perturbative signals in complex networks is governed by the combined effect of the network topology and its intrinsic nonlinear dynamics. Recently, the resulting spreading patterns have been analyzed and predicted, shown to depend on a single scaling relationship, linking a node's weighted degree $S_i$ to its intrinsic response time $\tau_i$. The relevant scaling exponent $\theta$ can be analytically traced to the system's nonlinear dynamics. Here we show that $\theta$ can be obtained via two different derivation tracks, leading to seemingly different functions. Analyzing the resulting predictions, we find that, despite their distinct form, they are fully consistent, predicting the exact same scaling relationship under potentially diverse types of dynamics.

2020: An alternating lock-down strategy for sustainable mitigation of COVID-19
Abstract: Lacking a drug or vaccine, our current strategy to contain the COVID-19 pandemic is by means of social distancing, specifically mobility restrictions and lock-downs. Such measures impose a hurtful toll on the economy, and are difficult to sustain for extended periods. The challenge is that selective isolation of the sick, an often viable and effective strategy, is insufficient against COVID-19, due to its relatively long incubation period, in which exposed individuals experience no symptoms, but still contribute to the spread. Here we propose an alternating lock-down strategy, in which at every instance, half of the population remains under lock-down while the other half continues to be active, maintaining a routine of weekly succession between activity and lock-down. All symptomatic individuals continue to remain in isolation. Under this regime, if an individual was exposed during their active week, by the time they complete their lock-down they will already begin to exhibit symptoms. Hence this strategy isolates the majority of exposed individuals during their asymptomatic phase. We find that this strategy not only overcomes the pandemic, but also allows for some level of flexibility, withstanding a fraction of defectors or essential workers that remain continuously active. We examine our strategy based on current epidemiological models with parameters relevant for COVID-19. We wish, however, following this communication, to further test and fine-tune our scheme based more refined data, and assess its actual effectiveness.

2020: Distance distribution in extreme modular networks.
Abstract: Modularity is a key organizing principle in real-world large-scale complex networks. Many real-world networks exhibit modular structures such as transportation infrastructures, communication networks, and social media. Having the knowledge of the shortest paths length distribution between random pairs of nodes in such networks is important for understanding many processes, including diffusion or flow. Here, we provide analytical methods which are in good agreement with simulations on large scale networks with an extreme modular structure. By extreme modular, we mean that two modules or communities may be connected by maximum one link. As a result of the modular structure of the network, we obtain a distribution showing many peaks that represent the number of modules a typical shortest path is passing through. We present theory and results for the case where interlinks are weighted, as well as cases in which the interlinks are spread randomly across nodes in the community or limited to a specific set of nodes.

2020: Alternating quarantine for sustainable mitigation of COVID-19
Abstract: Lacking a drug or vaccine, the current strategy to contain the COVID-19 pandemic is by means of social distancing, specifically mobility restrictions and lock-downs. Such measures impose a hurtful toll on the economy, and are difficult to sustain for extended periods. The challenge is that selective isolation of the symptomatic patients is insufficient to control SARS-CoV-2, due to its relatively long incubation period, in which individuals experience no symptoms, but may already contribute to the spread. How then do we isolate these \textit{invisible} pre-symptomatic spreaders? Here we propose an alternating quarantine strategy, in which at every instance, half of the population remains under lock-down while the other half continues to be active, maintaining a routine of weekly succession between activity and quarantine. Under this regime, if an individual was exposed during their active week, by the time they complete their quarantine they will, in most cases, begin to exhibit symptoms. Hence this strategy isolates the majority of pre-symptomatic individuals during their infectious phase, leading to a rapid decline in the viral spread - all while sustaining a continuously active economy at $50\%$ capacity.

2020: LB Scalability: Achieving the Right Balance Between Being Stateful and Stateless
Abstract: A high performance Layer-4 load balancer (LB) is one of the most important components of a cloud service infrastructure. Such an LB uses network and transport layer information for deciding how to distribute client requests across a group of servers. A crucial requirement for a stateful LB is per connection consistency (PCC); namely, that all the packets of the same connection will be forwarded to the same server, as long as the server is alive, even if the pool of servers or the assignment function changes. The challenge is in designing a high throughput, low latency solution that is also scalable. This paper proposes a highly scalable LB, called Prism, implemented using a programmable switch ASIC. As far as we know, Prism is the first reported stateful LB that can process millions of connections per second and hundreds of millions connections in total, while ensuring PCC. This is due to the fact that Prism forwards all the packets in hardware, even during server pool changes, while avoiding the need to maintain a hardware state per every active connection. We implemented a prototype of the proposed architecture and showed that Prism can scale to 100 million simultaneous connections, and can accommodate more than one pool update per second.

2019: Optimal shattering of complex networks
Abstract: None

2019: The Network of Law Reviews: Citation Cartels, Scientific Communities, and Journal Rankings
Abstract: Research evaluation is increasingly being influenced by quantitative data. The legal field has not escaped the impact of such metrics. Law schools and legal journals are being ranked by multiple global rankings. The key rankings for law schools are the Times Higher Education and Shanghai University Subject Rankings for law and SSRN Ranking for U.S. and International law schools. Law Journals are measured by four different rankings: Clarivate Analytics Web of Science Journal Citation Reports (JCR), CiteScore from Elsevier, Scimago and Washington and Lee. Despite the opposition from the scientific community these metrics continue to flourish. The article argues journal rankings (as other metrics) are the consequence of theory-laden choices that can influence their structure and their pretense of objectivity is therefore merely illusory. We focus on the influential ranking of law journals in JCR and critically assess its structure and methodology. In particular, we consider the question of the existence of tacit citation cartels in the U.S. law reviews market and the attentiveness of the JCR for the potential influence of such tacit cartel. To examine this question we studied a sample of 90 journals included in the category of Law in the JCR: 45 U.S. student-edited (SE) and 45 peer-reviewed (PR) journals. We found that PR and SE journals are more inclined to cite members of their own class, forming two separated communities. Close analysis revealed that this phenomenon is more pronounced in SE journals, especially generalist ones. This tendency reflects, we argue, a tacit cartelistic behavior, which is a product of deeply entrenched institutional structures. Because U.S. SE journals produce much more citations than PR journals, the fact that their citations are directed almost exclusively to SE journals elevates their ranking in the Journal Citation Reports in a way that distorts the structure of the ranking. This distortion can hamper the production of legal knowledge. We discuss several policy measures that can counter the adverse effects of this situation.

2019: On the changeover in the transition nature of local-interaction Potts models
Abstract: A combinatorial approach is used to study the critical behavior of a q-state Potts model with a round-the-face interaction. Using this approach, it is shown that the transition is of first order for q > 3. A second order transition is numerically detected for q = 2. Based on these findings, it is deduced that for some two-dimensional ferromagnetic Potts models with completely local interaction, there is a changeover in the transition order at a critical integer qc ≤ 3. This stands in contrast to the standard two-spin interaction Potts model where the maximal integer value for which the transition is continuous is qc = 4. Under a conceivable assumption, an exact expression for the first order transition critical temperature is additionally derived.

2019: Cardinality Estimation in a Virtualized Network Device Using Online Machine Learning
Abstract: Cardinality estimation algorithms receive a stream of elements, with possible repetitions, and return the number of distinct elements in the stream. Such algorithms seek to minimize the required memory and CPU resource consumption at the price of inaccuracy in their output. In computer networks, cardinality estimation algorithms are mainly used for counting the number of distinct flows, and they are divided into two categories: sketching algorithms and sampling algorithms. Sketching algorithms require the processing of all packets, and they are therefore usually implemented by dedicated hardware. Sampling algorithms do not require processing of all packets, but they are known for their inaccuracy. In this work we identify one of the major drawbacks of sampling-based cardinality estimation algorithms: their inability to adapt to changes in flow size distribution. To address this problem, we propose a new sampling-based adaptive cardinality estimation framework, which uses online machine learning. We evaluate our framework using real traffic traces, and show significantly better accuracy compared to the best known sampling-based algorithms, for the same fraction of processed packets.

2019: Inter-Datacenter Scheduling of Large Data Flows
Abstract: Inter-datacenter transfers of non-interactive but timely large flows over a private (managed) network is an important problem faced by many cloud service providers. The considered flows are non-interactive because they do not explicitly target the end users. However, most of them must be performed on a timely basis and are associated with a deadline. We propose to schedule these flows by a centralized controller, which determines when to transmit each flow and which path to use. Two scheduling models are presented in this paper. In the first, the controller also determines the rate of each flow, while in the second bandwidth is assigned by the network according to the TCP rules. We develop scheduling algorithms for both models and compare their complexity and performance.

