Recent papers for Roi Reichart:

2024: Your Prompt Is My Command: On Assessing the Human-Centred Generality of Multimodal Models (Abstract Reprint)
Abstract: Even with obvious deficiencies, large prompt-commanded multimodal models are proving to be flexible cognitive tools representing an unprecedented generality. But the directness, diversity, and degree of user interaction create a distinctive “human-centred generality” (HCG), rather than a fully autonomous one. HCG implies that —for a specific user— a system is only as general as it is effective for the user’s relevant tasks and their prevalent ways of prompting. A human-centred evaluation of general-purpose AI systems therefore needs to reflect the personal nature of interaction, tasks and cognition. We argue that the best way to understand these systems is as highly-coupled cognitive extenders, and to analyse the bidirectional cognitive adaptations between them and humans. In this paper, we give a formulation of HCG, as well as a high-level overview of the elements and trade-offs involved in the prompting process. We end the paper by outlining some essential research questions and suggestions for improving evaluation practices, which we envision as characteristic for the evaluation of general artificial intelligence in the future.

2023: A Picture May Be Worth a Thousand Lives: An Interpretable Artificial Intelligence Strategy for Predictions of Suicide Risk from Social Media Images
Abstract: The promising research on Artificial Intelligence usages in suicide prevention has principal gaps, including black box methodologies, inadequate outcome measures, and scarce research on non-verbal inputs, such as social media images (despite their popularity today, in our digital era). This study addresses these gaps and combines theory-driven and bottom-up strategies to construct a hybrid and interpretable prediction model of valid suicide risk from images. The lead hypothesis was that images contain valuable information about emotions and interpersonal relationships, two central concepts in suicide-related treatments and theories. The dataset included 177,220 images by 841 Facebook users who completed a gold-standard suicide scale. The images were represented with CLIP, a state-of-the-art algorithm, which was utilized, unconventionally, to extract predefined features that served as inputs to a simple logistic-regression prediction model (in contrast to complex neural networks). The features addressed basic and theory-driven visual elements using everyday language (e.g., bright photo, photo of sad people). The results of the hybrid model (that integrated theory-driven and bottom-up methods) indicated high prediction performance that surpassed common bottom-up algorithms, thus providing a first proof that images (alone) can be leveraged to predict validated suicide risk. Corresponding with the lead hypothesis, at-risk users had images with increased negative emotions and decreased belonginess. The results are discussed in the context of non-verbal warning signs of suicide. Notably, the study illustrates the advantages of hybrid models in such complicated tasks and provides simple and flexible prediction strategies that could be utilized to develop real-life monitoring tools of suicide.

2023: Perspective changes in human listeners are aligned with the contextual transformation of the word embedding space.
Abstract: Word embedding representations have been shown to be effective in predicting human neural responses to lingual stimuli. While these representations are sensitive to the textual context, they lack the extratextual sources of context such as prior knowledge, thoughts, and beliefs, all of which constitute the listener's perspective. In this study, we propose conceptualizing the listeners' perspective as a source that induces changes in the embedding space. We relied on functional magnetic resonance imaging data collected by Yeshurun Y, Swanson S, Simony E, Chen J, Lazaridi C, Honey CJ, Hasson U. Same story, different story: the neural representation of interpretive frameworks. Psychol Sci. 2017:28(3):307-319, in which two groups of human listeners (n = 40) were listening to the same story but with different perspectives. Using a dedicated fine-tuning process, we created two modified versions of a word embedding space, corresponding to the two groups of listeners. We found that each transformed space was better fitted with neural responses of the corresponding group, and that the spatial distances between these spaces reflect both interpretational differences between the perspectives and the group-level neural differences. Together, our results demonstrate how aligning a continuous embedding space to a specific context can provide a novel way of modeling listeners' intrinsic perspectives.

2023: A Systematic Study of Knowledge Distillation for Natural Language Generation with Pseudo-Target Training
Abstract: Modern Natural Language Generation (NLG) models come with massive computational and storage requirements. In this work, we study the potential of compressing them, which is crucial for real-world applications serving millions of users. We focus on Knowledge Distillation (KD) techniques, in which a small student model learns to imitate a large teacher model, allowing to transfer knowledge from the teacher to the student. In contrast to much of the previous work, our goal is to optimize the model for a specific NLG task and a specific dataset. Typically in real-world applications, in addition to labeled data there is abundant unlabeled task-specific data, which is crucial for attaining high compression rates via KD. In this work, we conduct a systematic study of task-specific KD techniques for various NLG tasks under realistic assumptions. We discuss the special characteristics of NLG distillation and particularly the exposure bias problem. Following, we derive a family of Pseudo-Target (PT) augmentation methods, substantially extending prior work on sequence-level KD. We propose the Joint-Teaching method, which applies word-level KD to multiple PTs generated by both the teacher and the student.Finally, we validate our findings in an extreme setup with no labeled examples using GPT-4 as the teacher. Our study provides practical model design observations and demonstrates the effectiveness of PT training for task-specific KD in NLG.

2023: Measuring the Robustness of NLP Models to Domain Shifts
Abstract: Existing research on Domain Robustness (DR) suffers from disparate setups, limited task variety, and scarce research on recent capabilities such as in-context learning. Furthermore, the common practice of measuring DR might not be fully accurate. Current research focuses on challenge sets and relies solely on the Source Drop (SD): Using the source in-domain performance as a reference point for degradation. However, we argue that the Target Drop (TD), which measures degradation from the target in-domain performance, should be used as a complementary point of view. To address these issues, we first curated a DR benchmark comprised of 7 diverse NLP tasks, which enabled us to measure both the SD and the TD. We then conducted a comprehensive large-scale DR study involving over 14,000 domain shifts across 21 fine-tuned models and few-shot LLMs. We found that both model types suffer from drops upon domain shifts. While fine-tuned models excel in-domain, few-shot LLMs often surpass them cross-domain, showing better robustness. In addition, we found that a large SD can often be explained by shifting to a harder domain rather than by a genuine DR challenge, and this highlights the importance of TD as a complementary metric. We hope our study will shed light on the current DR state of NLP models and promote improved evaluation practices toward more robust models.

2023: Human Choice Prediction in Language-based Persuasion Games: Simulation-based Off-Policy Evaluation
Abstract: Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have spurred interest in designing LLM-based agents for tasks that involve interaction with human and artificial agents. This paper addresses a key aspect in the design of such agents: Predicting human decision in off-policy evaluation (OPE), focusing on language-based persuasion games, where the agent's goal is to influence its partner's decisions through verbal messages. Using a dedicated application, we collected a dataset of 87K decisions from humans playing a repeated decision-making game with artificial agents. Our approach involves training a model on human interactions with one agents subset to predict decisions when interacting with another. To enhance off-policy performance, we propose a simulation technique involving interactions across the entire agent space and simulated decision makers. Our learning strategy yields significant OPE gains, e.g., improving prediction accuracy in the top 15% challenging cases by 7.1%. Our code and the large dataset we collected and generated are submitted as supplementary material and publicly available in our GitHub repository: https://github.com/eilamshapira/HumanChoicePrediction

2023: Navigating Cultural Chasms: Exploring and Unlocking the Cultural POV of Text-To-Image Models
Abstract: Text-To-Image (TTI) models, such as DALL-E and StableDiffusion, have demonstrated remarkable prompt-based image generation capabilities. Multilingual encoders may have a substantial impact on the cultural agency of these models, as language is a conduit of culture. In this study, we explore the cultural perception embedded in TTI models by characterizing culture across three hierarchical tiers: cultural dimensions, cultural domains, and cultural concepts. Based on this ontology, we derive prompt templates to unlock the cultural knowledge in TTI models, and propose a comprehensive suite of evaluation techniques, including intrinsic evaluations using the CLIP space, extrinsic evaluations with a Visual-Question-Answer (VQA) model and human assessments, to evaluate the cultural content of TTI-generated images. To bolster our research, we introduce the CulText2I dataset, derived from six diverse TTI models and spanning ten languages. Our experiments provide insights regarding Do, What, Which and How research questions about the nature of cultural encoding in TTI models, paving the way for cross-cultural applications of these models.

2023: Your Prompt is My Command: On Assessing the Human-Centred Generality of Multimodal Models
Abstract: Even with obvious deficiencies, large prompt-commanded multimodal models are proving to be flexible cognitive tools representing an unprecedented generality. But the directness, diversity, and degree of user interaction create a distinctive “human-centred generality” (HCG), rather than a fully autonomous one. HCG implies that —for a specific user— a system is only as general as it is effective for the user’s relevant tasks and their prevalent ways of prompting. A human-centred evaluation of general-purpose AI systems therefore needs to reflect the personal nature of interaction, tasks and cognition. We argue that the best way to understand these systems is as highly-coupled cognitive extenders, and to analyse the bidirectional cognitive adaptations between them and humans. In this paper, we give a formulation of HCG, as well as a high-level overview of the elements and trade-offs involved in the prompting process. We end the paper by outlining some essential research questions and suggestions for improving evaluation practices, which we envision as characteristic for the evaluation of general artificial intelligence in the future.
This paper appears in the AI & Society track.

2022: In the Eye of the Beholder: Robust Prediction with Causal User Modeling
Abstract: Accurately predicting the relevance of items to users is crucial to the success of many social platforms. Conventional approaches train models on logged historical data; but recommendation systems, media services, and online marketplaces all exhibit a constant influx of new content -- making relevancy a moving target, to which standard predictive models are not robust. In this paper, we propose a learning framework for relevance prediction that is robust to changes in the data distribution. Our key observation is that robustness can be obtained by accounting for how users causally perceive the environment. We model users as boundedly-rational decision makers whose causal beliefs are encoded by a causal graph, and show how minimal information regarding the graph can be used to contend with distributional changes. Experiments in multiple settings demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.

2022: On the Robustness of Dialogue History Representation in Conversational Question Answering: A Comprehensive Study and a New Prompt-based Method
Abstract: Most work on modeling the conversation history in Conversational Question Answering (CQA) reports a single main result on a common CQA benchmark. While existing models show impressive results on CQA leaderboards, it remains unclear whether they are robust to shifts in setting (sometimes to more realistic ones), training data size (e.g., from large to small sets) and domain. In this work, we design and conduct the first large-scale robustness study of history modeling approaches for CQA. We find that high benchmark scores do not necessarily translate to strong robustness, and that various methods can perform extremely differently under different settings. Equipped with the insights from our study, we design a novel prompt-based history modeling approach and demonstrate its strong robustness across various settings. Our approach is inspired by existing methods that highlight historic answers in the passage. However, instead of highlighting by modifying the passage token embeddings, we add textual prompts directly in the passage text. Our approach is simple, easy to plug into practically any model, and highly effective, thus we recommend it as a starting point for future model developers. We also hope that our study and insights will raise awareness to the importance of robustness-focused evaluation, in addition to obtaining high leaderboard scores, leading to better CQA systems.1

2022: A Functional Information Perspective on Model Interpretation
Abstract: Contemporary predictive models are hard to interpret as their deep nets exploit numerous complex relations between input elements. This work suggests a theoretical framework for model interpretability by measuring the contribution of relevant features to the functional entropy of the network with respect to the input. We rely on the log-Sobolev inequality that bounds the functional entropy by the functional Fisher information with respect to the covariance of the data. This provides a principled way to measure the amount of information contribution of a subset of features to the decision function. Through extensive experiments, we show that our method surpasses existing interpretability sampling-based methods on various data signals such as image, text, and audio.

2022: CEBaB: Estimating the Causal Effects of Real-World Concepts on NLP Model Behavior
Abstract: The increasing size and complexity of modern ML systems has improved their predictive capabilities but made their behavior harder to explain. Many techniques for model explanation have been developed in response, but we lack clear criteria for assessing these techniques. In this paper, we cast model explanation as the causal inference problem of estimating causal effects of real-world concepts on the output behavior of ML models given actual input data. We introduce CEBaB, a new benchmark dataset for assessing concept-based explanation methods in Natural Language Processing (NLP). CEBaB consists of short restaurant reviews with human-generated counterfactual reviews in which an aspect (food, noise, ambiance, service) of the dining experience was modified. Original and counterfactual reviews are annotated with multiply-validated sentiment ratings at the aspect-level and review-level. The rich structure of CEBaB allows us to go beyond input features to study the effects of abstract, real-world concepts on model behavior. We use CEBaB to compare the quality of a range of concept-based explanation methods covering different assumptions and conceptions of the problem, and we seek to establish natural metrics for comparative assessments of these methods.

2022: Learning Discrete Structured Variational Auto-Encoder using Natural Evolution Strategies
Abstract: Discrete variational auto-encoders (VAEs) are able to represent semantic latent spaces in generative learning. In many real-life settings, the discrete latent space consists of high-dimensional structures, and propagating gradients through the relevant structures often requires enumerating over an exponentially large latent space. Recently, various approaches were devised to propagate approximated gradients without enumerating over the space of possible structures. In this work, we use Natural Evolution Strategies (NES), a class of gradient-free black-box optimization algorithms, to learn discrete structured VAEs. The NES algorithms are computationally appealing as they estimate gradients with forward pass evaluations only, thus they do not require to propagate gradients through their discrete structures. We demonstrate empirically that optimizing discrete structured VAEs using NES is as effective as gradient-based approximations. Lastly, we prove NES converges for non-Lipschitz functions as appear in discrete structured VAEs.

2022: Example-based Hypernetworks for Out-of-Distribution Generalization
Abstract: As Natural Language Processing (NLP) algorithms continually achieve new milestones, out-of-distribution generalization remains a significant challenge. This paper addresses the issue of multi-source adaptation for unfamiliar domains: We leverage labeled data from multiple source domains to generalize to unknown target domains at training. Our innovative framework employs example-based Hypernetwork adaptation: a T5 encoder-decoder initially generates a unique signature from an input example, embedding it within the source domains' semantic space. This signature is subsequently utilized by a Hypernetwork to generate the task classifier's weights. We evaluated our method across two tasks - sentiment classification and natural language inference - in 29 adaptation scenarios, where it outpaced established algorithms. In an advanced version, the signature also enriches the input example's representation. We also compare our finetuned architecture to few-shot GPT-3, demonstrating its effectiveness in essential use cases. To our knowledge, this marks the first application of Hypernetworks to the adaptation for unknown domains.

2022: Domain Adaptation from Scratch
Abstract: Natural language processing (NLP) algorithms are rapidly improving but often struggle when applied to out-of-distribution examples. A prominent approach to mitigate the domain gap is domain adaptation, where a model trained on a source domain is adapted to a new target domain. We present a new learning setup, ``domain adaptation from scratch'', which we believe to be crucial for extending the reach of NLP to sensitive domains in a privacy-preserving manner. In this setup, we aim to efficiently annotate data from a set of source domains such that the trained model performs well on a sensitive target domain from which data is unavailable for annotation. Our study compares several approaches for this challenging setup, ranging from data selection and domain adaptation algorithms to active learning paradigms, on two NLP tasks: sentiment analysis and Named Entity Recognition. Our results suggest that using the abovementioned approaches eases the domain gap, and combining them further improves the results.

2022: DoCoGen: Domain Counterfactual Generation for Low Resource Domain Adaptation
Abstract: Natural language processing (NLP) algorithms have become very successful, but they still struggle when applied to out-of-distribution examples. In this paper we propose a controllable generation approach in order to deal with this domain adaptation (DA) challenge. Given an input text example, our DoCoGen algorithm generates a domain-counterfactual textual example (D-con) - that is similar to the original in all aspects, including the task label, but its domain is changed to a desired one. Importantly, DoCoGen is trained using only unlabeled examples from multiple domains - no NLP task labels or parallel pairs of textual examples and their domain-counterfactuals are required. We show that DoCoGen can generate coherent counterfactuals consisting of multiple sentences. We use the D-cons generated by DoCoGen to augment a sentiment classifier and a multi-label intent classifier in 20 and 78 DA setups, respectively, where source-domain labeled data is scarce. Our model outperforms strong baselines and improves the accuracy of a state-of-the-art unsupervised DA algorithm.

2022: Shared computational principles for language processing in humans and deep language models
Abstract: None

2022: Multi-task Active Learning for Pre-trained Transformer-based Models
Abstract: Abstract Multi-task learning, in which several tasks are jointly learned by a single model, allows NLP models to share information from multiple annotations and may facilitate better predictions when the tasks are inter-related. This technique, however, requires annotating the same text with multiple annotation schemes, which may be costly and laborious. Active learning (AL) has been demonstrated to optimize annotation processes by iteratively selecting unlabeled examples whose annotation is most valuable for the NLP model. Yet, multi-task active learning (MT-AL) has not been applied to state-of-the-art pre-trained Transformer-based NLP models. This paper aims to close this gap. We explore various multi-task selection criteria in three realistic multi-task scenarios, reflecting different relations between the participating tasks, and demonstrate the effectiveness of multi-task compared to single-task selection. Our results suggest that MT-AL can be effectively used in order to minimize annotation efforts for multi-task NLP models.1

2022: Text2Model: Model Induction for Zero-shot Generalization Using Task Descriptions
Abstract: We study the problem of generating a training-free task-dependent visual clas-siﬁer from text descriptions without visual samples. This Text-to-Model (T2M) problem is closely related to zero-shot learning, but unlike previous work, a T2M model infers a model tailored to a task, taking into account all classes in the task. We analyze the symmetries of T2M, and characterize the equivariance and invariance properties of corresponding models. In light of these properties we design an architecture based on hypernetworks that given a set of new class descriptions predicts the weights for an object recognition model which classiﬁes images from those zero-shot classes. We demonstrate the beneﬁts of our approach compared to zero-shot learning from text descriptions in image and point-cloud classiﬁcation using various types of text descriptions: From single words to rich text descriptions.

2021: Fine-tuning of deep language models as a computational framework of modeling listeners’ perspective during language comprehension
Abstract: Computational Deep Language Models (DLMs) have been shown to be effective in predicting neural responses during natural language processing. This study introduces a novel computational framework, based on the concept of fine-tuning (Hinton, 2007), for modeling differences in interpretation of narratives based on the listeners’ perspective (i.e. their prior knowledge, thoughts, and beliefs). We draw on an fMRI experiment conducted by Yeshurun et al. (2017), in which two groups of listeners were listening to the same narrative but with two different perspectives (cheating versus paranoia). We collected a dedicated dataset of ~3000 stories, and used it to create two modified (fine-tuned) versions of a pre-trained DLM, each representing the perspective of a different group of listeners. Information extracted from each of the two fine-tuned models was better fitted with neural responses of the corresponding group of listeners. Furthermore, we show that the degree of difference between the listeners’ interpretation of the story - as measured both neurally and behaviorally - can be approximated using the distances between the representations of the story extracted from these two fine-tuned models. These models-brain associations were expressed in many language-related brain areas, as well as in several higher-order areas related to the default-mode and the mentalizing networks, therefore implying that computational fine-tuning reliably captures relevant aspects of human language comprehension across different levels of cognitive processing.

