Recent papers for Salzman Joseph:

2022: The Aged polymath as a Non-professional Artist
Abstract: None

2017: Effects of Gamma Irradiation on AlGaN-Based High Electron Mobility Transistors
Abstract: The inﬂuence of various radiations on the performance and carrier transport properties of AlGaN/GaN HEMTs have been observed at length over the previous few decades. Gamma irradiation has been shown to have little inﬂuence on carrier density but has signiﬁcant effects on device performance. The effects of gamma irradiation have proven non-monotonic in nature, dividing results into low and high doses with an inﬂection point near 300 Gy. Low doses of gamma irradiation have a tendency to improve device characteristics, while high doses lead to device degradation. The differences in low versus high doses are highlighted by electron beam induced current and dc characterizations. The variance in behavior originates from irradiation-induced trap generation and subsequent trap occupation from Compton scattering. AlGaN/GaN-based HEMTs have shown carrier transport enhancement for low doses. terms of the

2017: LATERAL COUPLED CAVITY SEMCONDUCTOR LASER ORIGIN OF INVENTION
Abstract: Two or more parallel waveguide lasers of different effective length are coupled together by their evanes cent waves such that the composite structure functions as a single cavity having a longitudinal mode with reso nances related to the resonances of the separate cavities. A very strong selection of the composite operating frequency, and suppression of most or all of the other longitudinal modes, with frequency tuning of the con posite structure (both continuously and by mode hop ping), can be accomplished by varying the relative cur rents supplied to each laser. Upon holding one cavity at one current level for a selected operating point and shifting the other, bistable operation can be achieved.

2017: Optical Signature of the Electron Injection in Ga2O3
Abstract: None

2017: Low dose 60Co gamma-irradiation effects on electronic carrier transport and DC characteristics of AlGaN/GaN high-electron-mobility transistors
Abstract: ABSTRACT The impact of internal irradiation with secondary Compton electrons, generated by gamma-photons, on the characteristics of III-N/GaN-based devices was explored. N-channel AlGaN/GaN high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) were exposed to gamma-radiation from a 60Co source for doses up to 600 Gy. Temperature-dependent electron beam-induced current (EBIC) was employed to measure minority carrier transport properties. For low doses below ∼250 Gy, the minority carrier diffusion length in AlGaN/GaN HEMTs is shown to increase by about 40%. This increase is likely due to longer minority carrier lifetime induced by internal Compton electron irradiation. An associated decrease in activation energy, extracted from temperature-dependent EBIC, was also found. The obtained increase in transconductance and decrease in gate leakage current indicate an improvement in performance of the devices after low doses of irradiation. For high doses of gamma-irradiation, above ∼300 Gy, the performance of HEMTs showed a deterioration. The deterioration results from the onset of increased carrier scattering due to additional radiation-induced defects, as is translated in a decrease of minority carrier diffusion length.

2016: Non-volatile resonance modes of a photonic cavity in diamond produced by fine-tuning
Abstract: Methods of fine-tuning the properties of 1D triangular nanobeam diamond based photonic devices, with the aim of enhancing the photon collection efficiency at predetermined wavelengths at ambient temperature, are described. Delicate control of the physical dimensions of the device, which is required to obtain these advantages, is achieved by the deposition of HfO2 monolayers (thickening) and by H2 plasma etching (thinning). These shift the optical properties of the thus-treated photonic crystal to the red and to the blue, respectively. The methods described here demonstrate a practical and straight-forward way to fine-tune the diamond photonic nanocavity into resonance with the zero-phonon line of the Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV-) centers at room temperature with the availability to be kept storable. This approach paves the way to obtain a non-volatile nanobeam structure available at a desired predetermined resonance mode for a subsequent usage of the NV- emission in ambient conditions. It may find valuable appli...

2016: Optical and electron beam studies of gamma-irradiated AlGaN/GaN high-electron-mobility transistors
Abstract: ABSTRACT The impact of 60Co gamma-irradiation on n-channel AlGaN/GaN high-electron-mobility transistors was studied by means of temperature-dependent electron beam-induced current (EBIC) and cathodoluminescence (CL) techniques. For the doses up to ∼250 Gy, an enhancement of minority carrier transport was observed as evident from the EBIC measurements. This enhancement is associated with internal electron irradiation induced by the primary gamma photons. For the doses above ∼250 Gy, deterioration in minority carrier transport was explained by carrier scattering on radiation-induced defects. It is shown that calculated activation energy from the EBIC and CL measurements follows exactly the same trend, which implies that the same underlying phenomenon is responsible for observed findings.

2016: 0 Characterization of Three-Dimensional Microstructures in Single-Crystal Diamond
Abstract: None

2015: Dual bipolar resistive switching in the sub-forming regime of HfO2 resistive switching devices
Abstract: None

2015: Cathodoluminescence Studies of Gamma-Irradiation Effects on AlGaN/GaN High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMTs)
Abstract: None

2015: Multi-functional optically sensitive metal-insulator-semiconductor devices based on Pt nanoparticles fabricated in-situ with a dielectric stack using atomic layer deposition
Abstract: We report optically sensitive multi-functional metal-insulator-semiconductor devices based on Pt nanoparticles, which were fabricated in-situ with the dielectric stack using atomic layer deposition on a silicon-on-insulator substrate. The devices exhibit non-volatile memory behavior, with a memory window that can be enhanced by optical illumination. Voltage stressed devices serve as highly sensitive broadband photodetectors, as well as optically tunable varactors.

2015: Optically sensitive devices based on Pt nano particles fabricated by atomic layer deposition and embedded in a dielectric stack
Abstract: We report a series of metal insulator semiconductor devices with embedded Pt nano particles (NPs) fabricated using a low temperature atomic layer deposition process. Optically sensitive nonvolatile memory cells as well as optical sensors: (i) varactors, whose capacitance-voltage characteristics, nonlinearity, and peak capacitance are strongly dependent on illumination intensity; (ii) highly linear photo detectors whose responsivity is enhanced due to the Pt NPs. Both single devices and back to back pairs of diodes were used. The different configurations enable a variety of functionalities with many potential applications in biomedical sensing, environmental surveying, simple imagers for consumer electronics and military uses. The simplicity and planar configuration of the proposed devices makes them suitable for standard CMOS fabrication technology.

2014: Fabrication of triangular nanobeam waveguide networks in bulk diamond using single-crystal silicon hard masks
Abstract: A scalable approach for integrated photonic networks in single-crystal diamond using triangular etching of bulk samples is presented. We describe designs of high quality factor (Q = 2.51 × 106) photonic crystal cavities with low mode volume (Vm = 1.062 × (λ/n)3), which are connected via waveguides supported by suspension structures with predicted transmission loss of only 0.05 dB. We demonstrate the fabrication of these structures using transferred single-crystal silicon hard masks and angular dry etching, yielding photonic crystal cavities in the visible spectrum with measured quality factors in excess of Q = 3 × 103.

2013: Ultraviolet to near infrared response of optically sensitive nonvolatile memories based on platinum nano-particles and high-k dielectrics on a silicon on insulator substrate
Abstract: An optically triggered nonvolatile memory based on platinum nano-particles embedded within a SiO2 and HfO2 dielectric stack on a silicon on insulator (SOI) substrate is presented. The memory cell exhibits a very wide spectral response, from 220 nm to 950 nm; much wider than common photo-detectors fabricated on SOI. It offers several functionalities including a low programming voltage and wide hysteresis of the capacitance-voltage characteristics, an illumination and voltage sweep amplitude dependent hysteresis of the current-voltage characteristics, and plasmonic enhanced, efficient broad-band photo detection.

2013: Nanosession: Valence Change Memories ‐ A Look Inside
Abstract: None

2013: The electrostatics of Ta2O5 in Si-based metal oxide semiconductor devices
Abstract: Thin dielectric layers are a prominent route to control the band alignments and effective work function of metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) devices. In this work, the electrostatic effects of thin Ta2O5 layers on the band alignments of MOS devices are examined. A detailed analysis of the physical properties of a thick (∼6 nm) Ta2O5 layer is reported. No significant dipoles at Ta2O5-Al2O3 and Ta2O5-SiO2 interfaces are found, as well as any significant charges inside Ta2O5 layers. When positioned at the interface, Ta2O5 is shown to prevent the formation of band offsets between Al2O3-SiO2, resulting in a shift of 1 ± 0.2 eV versus samples without interfacial Ta2O5. The relatively large magnitude of this shift in the current experimental configuration compared to previous works may indicate the participation of interface charges in the band offset. The possible use for these effects in devices is discussed.

2013: The electrostatics of Ta 2 O 5 in Si-based metal oxide semiconductor devices
Abstract: Related Articles The impact of substrate miscut on the morphology of InGaN epitaxial layers subjected to a growth interruption J. Appl. Phys. 113, 063503 (2013) The influence of potassium on the growth of ultra-thin films of para-hexaphenyl on muscovite mica(001) J. Chem. Phys. 137, 134701 (2012) Structural and optical properties of Cu-doped CdTe films with hexagonal phase grown by pulsed laser deposition AIP Advances 2, 022131 (2012) Lithium-ion conducting La2/3−xLi3xTiO3 solid electrolyte thin films with stepped and terraced surfaces Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 173107 (2012) Thin film measurement system for moving objects based on a laterally distributed linear variable filter spectrometer Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 035110 (2012)

2012: The Effect of HfO2 Overlayer on the Thermal Stability of SiGe Substrate
Abstract: In this work we study the effect of various overlayers on the thermal stability of Si0.8Ge0.2 substrate by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Si0.8Ge0.2 substrates were either covered with native oxide or were HF cleaned and subsequently covered with ∼ 1n m thick HfO2. Our studies reveal different thermal behavior and germanium oxide stoichiometry for these samples. We showed that high temperature annealing (TA ≥1000 ◦ C) results in Hf silicide formation, which is mostly correlated with thermal decomposition of silicon dioxide.

2012: Investigation of the band offsets caused by thin Al2O3 layers in HfO2 based Si metal oxide semiconductor devices
Abstract: Ultrathin dielectric capping layers are a prominent route for threshold voltage control in advanced Si devices. In this work the position of an Al2O3 layer inside a HfO2-based stack is systematically varied and investigated following a low and a high temperature anneal. Electrical results are compared with a sub-nanometer resolution materials characterization, showing a diffusion of Al to the bottom HfO2 interface. A correlation is found between the presence of Al at the bottom interface and a flatband voltage increase. Based on these findings, we propose to use the position of the Al2O3 for fine-tuning the threshold voltage.

2012: Resistive Switching in $\hbox{HfO}_{2}$ Probed by a Metal–Insulator–Semiconductor Bipolar Transistor
Abstract: Resistive switching in thin HfO2 films is studied using a metal-insulator-semiconductor bipolar transistor structure. Using this structure, electron injection into the semiconductor valence band can be distinguished from injection into the conduction band. In addition, the p-n junction serves as a sensitive detector of damage induced by the switching effect. The implications of the obtained experimental results on the validity of various conduction mechanisms through the insulator are discussed.

