Recent papers for Schachter Levi:

2019: Power correlation in an optimized ECR plasma for high ionized ions
Abstract: None

2016: Enhanced Production of High-Charge-State Ions in ECRIS by Simultaneously Applied Special Wall Coating and Two-Frequency Heating
Abstract: A study dedicated to enhance the performance of the volume effect in double-frequency heating (DFH) has been carried at the Frankfurt 14-GHz ECRIS of the Institut für Kernphysik, Goethe University Frankfurt, Germany. For this purpose, the electron density and temperature of the plasma have been enhanced by applying the established MD method developed by the authors. In addition to the standard RF frequency (14.3 GHz) injected from a klystron transmitter, a second RF frequency has been injected into the plasma chamber of the ECRIS via the second waveguide from a TWT transmitter, allowing variation of the injected frequency in the range between 13 and 15 GHz. A frequency gap of 800 MHz with almost overlapping resonance zones has been used in contrast to the minimum gap width of 1.5 GHz usually used in DFH. Applying the MD method permitted the increase in the intensity of the extracted Ar14+ ion beam by a factor of 5 by adding a 150-W RF power from the TWT to the basic injection of 700 W from the klystron, a value that clearly exceeds enhancements that have been measured in earlier experiments with the DFH having two well separated resonance zones.

2014: SECONDARY-ELECTRON-ENHANCED PLASMA AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO DOUBLE / VARIABLE-FREQUENCY HEATING IN ECRIS
Abstract: “Double Frequency Heating” (DFH) now has become the method of choice to optimize the output from the newest generation ECRIS installations. It was a challenge to compare this method with the comparatively cheap method of “metal dielectric” (MD) structure introduced into the plasma chamber, which has also proven to strongly enrich the plasma with electrons that are effectively trapped and heated. At the 14GHz ECRIS installation at Frankfurt, we have carried out a series of experiments using the two available RF-transmitters to launch two different frequencies into the IKF ECRIS. Due to restriction in the available frequency difference, the source could not be operated in real DFH-mode but was operated in “Frequency Tuning Mode” (FTM), for which also positive results are reported in literature. It turned out that the double RF-injection does not change the source performance substantially. The measured effects are in the order of 20% to 30% as reported elsewhere. In contrast to this, the enhancement gained by the MD method is much higher. The measured enhancement ratios even surpass those, reported for real double frequency heating.

2014: On the role of electron energy distribution function in double frequency heating of electron cyclotron resonance ion source plasmas.
Abstract: Double frequency heating (DFH) is a tool to improve the output of highly charged ions particularly from modern electron cyclotron resonance ion source installations with very high RF-frequencies. In order to gain information on the DFH-mechanism and on the role of the lower injected frequency we have carried out a series of dedicated experiments where we have put emphasis on the creation of a discrete resonance surface also for this lower frequency. Our well-established method of inserting an emissive MD (metal-dielectric) liner into the plasma chamber of the source is used in these experiments as a tool of investigation. In this way, the electron temperature and density for both ECR zones is increased in a controlled manner, allowing conclusions on the role of the change of the electron-energy-distribution function with and without DFH.

2014: Phenomenological Model for Unified Representation of Fundamental Particles Masses
Abstract: A geometric representation of the (N = 279) masses of quarks, leptons, hadrons and gauge bosons was introduced by employing a Riemann Sphere facilitating the interpretation of the N masses in terms of a single particle, the Masson, which might be in one of the N eigen-states. Geometrically, its mass is the radius of the Riemann Sphere. Dynamically, its derived mass is near the mass of the nucleon regardless of whether it is determined from all N particles or only the hadrons, the mesons or the baryons separately. Ignoring all the other properties of these particles, it is shown that the eigen-values, the polar representation (θν) of the masses on the Sphere, satisfy the symmetry θν + θN+1−ν = π within less that 1% relative error. These pair correlations include the pairs θγ +θtop ' π and θgluon+θH ' π as well as pairing the weak gauge bosons with the three neutrinos. The eigen-values form 6 clusters that are reflective of a ”Periodic” Chart of the Particles. A function was established whose zeros were a good approximation to the masses (θν). A Regge analysis for missing masses was carried out and some uses for particle fusion reactions were considered including energy production. It was shown that there are very few particles with spin (J) larger than 1 + θ.

2013: Nonspreading electron-beams that balance self-repulsion
Abstract: By introducing concepts of beam shaping from nonlinear optics into quantum mechanics, we show how interference of electrons wavefunctions can exactly balance the nonlinear self-repulsion of an electron-beam, creating nonspreading shape-preserving propagation in free-space.

2012: The impact of plasma-wall interaction on the gas mixing efficiency in electron cyclotron resonance ion source.
Abstract: It is generally accepted that different effects are necessary to explain the gas mixing method of increasing the output of highly charged ions from an ECRIS. The two most important effects are the mass effect and the dilution effect. Their relative weights have not been determined experimentally yet, but it is generally assumed that the mass effect is dominant in standard ECRIS installations with stainless steel plasma chambers. In order to gain more insight into the physics of the gas mixing effect and in particular on the relevance of the dilution process, we have carried out a study where we have investigated the role of the plasma-wall interaction on the gas mixing effect. In this contribution, we shall discuss Charge state distributions spectra, measured at the Frankfurt ECRIS using different working gases, pure argon, a mixture of argon and oxygen, and argon mixed with neon.

2012: E-beam interaction with gaseous excited medium
Abstract: Interaction of a beam of electrons with an excited gaseous medium is formulated and a few examples are presented. In the framework of the model, the dielectric properties of the gaseous medium are represented by a finite set of resonances corresponding to spectral lines of the gas constituents. Both passive and active states are considered. It is assumed that one of the energy states is inverted. Longitudinal and transverse forces acting on the beam are evaluated analytically and Panofsky-Wenzel theorem for an active medium is derived. Numerical simulations are presented.

2010: Metal-dielectric structures for high power electron cyclotron resonance ion source.
Abstract: Metal-dielectric (MD)-structures in electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS) devices (partially) restore the plasma ambipolarity and supply cold electrons to the plasma. Both effects lead to an enhancement of the plasma electron density and temperature and significantly increase the performance of this type of ion source. At the same time, MD-structures are well suited to reduce the heat load on cold masses by Bremsstrahlung radiation. Here, we report on experiments at high microwave powers to test the practical use of MD-structures for new, high performance ECRISs with their much higher power densities. The comparatively long conditioning times can be shortened by covering only those parts of the source with MD-structures, which are essential for the improvement.

2010: THE INFLUENCE OF AMBIPOLARITY ON PLASMA CONFINEMENT AND THE PERFORMANCE OF ECRIS
Abstract: Charge diffusion in an ECRIS discharge is usually characterized by non ambipolar behavior. While the ions are transported to the radial walls, electrons are lost axially from the magnetic trap. Global neutrality is maintained via compensating currents in the conducting walls of the vacuum chamber. It is assumed that this behavior reduces the ion breeding times compared to a truly ambipolar plasma. We have carried out a series of dedicated experiments in which the ambipolarity of the ECRIS plasma was influenced by inserting special metal-dielectric structures (MD layers) into the plasma chamber of the Frankfurt 14GHz ECRIS. The measurements demonstrate the positive influence on the source performance when the ECR plasma is changed towards more ambipolar behavior.

2010: Power grid analysis based on a macro circuit model
Abstract: Analysis and design of on-chip power grids are complex problems. A typical grid consists of hundreds of millions of transistors that act as current consumers. Typical algorithms for power grid analysis or power grid automatic design, model the current consumers, namely the CMOS logic gates, as ideal current sources. In this study we offer a new methodology for modeling the power-consuming gates on the grid. Our approach is based on the analysis of the total dissipated power by these consumers. We propose a new model for the current consumers, based on effective impedance. In this model, only passive elements are employed. It relies on a calculation of the effective capacitance and effective resistance of the logic gates. Since during each clock period the dissipated power and the stored energy are exactly represented, total energy and power are exactly modeled. Methods from statistical/computational physics can be adopted to represent clusters of consumers on each sub-grid as "macro-circuits". The interaction between the power grid and the current consumers is taken into account in this model and an example for it is presented.

2010: Electron Cloud at Low Emittance in CesrTA
Abstract: The Cornell Electron Storage Ring (CESR) has been reconfigured as a test accelerator (CesrTA) for a program of electron cloud (EC) research at ultra low emittance. The instrumentation in the ring has been upgraded with local diagnostics for measurement of cloud density and with improved beam diagnostics for the characterization of both the low emittance performance and the beam dynamics of high intensity bunch trains interacting with the cloud. A range of EC mitigation methods have been deployed and tested and their effectiveness is discussed. Measurements of the electron cloud's effect on the beam under a range of conditions are discussed along with the simulations being used to quantitatively understand these results.

2010: Enhanced confinement in electron cyclotron resonance ion source plasma.
Abstract: Power loss by plasma-wall interactions may become a limitation for the performance of ECR and fusion plasma devices. Based on our research to optimize the performance of electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS) devices by the use of metal-dielectric (MD) structures, the development of the method presented here, allows to significantly improve the confinement of plasma electrons and hence to reduce losses. Dedicated measurements were performed at the Frankfurt 14 GHz ECRIS using argon and helium as working gas and high temperature resistive material for the MD structures. The analyzed charge state distributions and bremsstrahlung radiation spectra (corrected for background) also clearly verify the anticipated increase in the plasma-electron density and hence demonstrate the advantage by the MD-method.

2010: OPTIMIZED EXTRACTION CONDITIONS FROM HIGH POWER-ECRIS BY DEDICATED DIELECTRIC STRUCTURES
Abstract: The MD-method of enhancing the ion output from ECR ion sources is well established and basically works via two mechanisms, the regenerative injection of cold electrons from an emissive dielectric layer on the plasma chamber walls and via the cutting of compensating wall currents, which results in an improved ion extraction from the plasma. As this extraction from the plasma becomes a more and more challenging issue for modern ECRIS installations with high microwave power input, a series of experiments was carried out at the 14 GHz ECRIS of the Institut fur Kernphysik in Frankfurt/Main, Germany (IKF). In contrast to our earlier work, in these experiments emphasis was put on the second of the above mechanisms namely to influence the sheath potential at the extraction by structures with special dielectric properties. Two different types of dielectric structures, Tantalum-oxide and Aluminium oxide (the latter also being used for the MD-method) with contrastingly different electrical properties were mounted on the extraction electrode of the IKF-ECRIS, facing the plasma. For both structures an increase of the extracted ion beam currents for middle and high charge states by 60-80 % was observed. The method is able to be applied also to other ECR ion sources for increasing the extracted ion beam performances.

2009: MICROWAVE POWER SAVING AND REDUCED BREEMSTRAHLUNG EMISSION FOR A HIGH CHARGE STATE ION PRODUCTION IN AN ECRIS EQUIPPED WITH MD STRUCTURES*
Abstract: Metal dielectric structures (MD), installed in the plasma chamber of the Frankfurt 14GHz electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS), have been used to significantly reduce the level of microwave power, necessary to create comparable ion intensities as for the standard operation of the Frankfurt ECRIS. The measurements indicate that the RF-power may be reduced by a factor of 2-3 to obtain the same output of high argon charge states as in the standard source with stainless steel plasma chamber. This reduced level of microwave power also leads to a much lower level of X-ray emission from the source.

2009: Influence of the electron cyclotron resonance plasma confinement on reducing the bremsstrahlung production of an electron cyclotron resonance ion source with metal-dielectric structures.
Abstract: The influence of metal-dielectric (MD) layers (MD structures) inserted into the plasma chamber of an electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS) onto the production of electron bremsstrahlung radiation has been studied in a series of dedicated experiments at the 14 GHz ECRIS of the Institut für Kernphysik der Universität Frankfurt. The IKF-ECRIS was equipped with a MD liner, covering the inner walls of the plasma chamber, and a MD electrode, covering the plasma-facing side of the extraction electrode. On the basis of similar extracted currents of highly charged ions, significantly reduced yields of bremsstrahlung radiation for the "MD source" as compared to the standard (stainless steel) source have been measured and can be explained by the significantly better plasma confinement in a MD source as compared to an "all stainless steel" ECRIS.

2008: Status of the 28GHz Superconducting ECR Ion Source Project ISIBHI-MSECRIS
Abstract: Besides regularly delivering C ions for the heavy ion therapy the HLI is mainly serving the high duty cycle experiments investigating superheavy elements (SHE), which request beams of rare isotopes in most cases. The most suitable ion source for this purpose is an ECR ion source (ECRIS) with its high efficiency and low material consumption. At GSI there is the demand to increase the intensity of the ECRIS as it is also requested at other European accelerator laboratories. Within EURONS of FP6 the joint research activity ISIBHI (Ion Source for Intense Beams of Heavy Ions) started at the beginning of 2005. A prototype of a new generation of ECRIS will be built that can be adapted to the different requirements in cw and pulsed mode. Higher ion beam intensities from an ECRIS require an increase of the plasma density. According to semiempirical scaling laws and to experiments at present ECRIS [2, 3, 4] the electron density is directly related to the square of the microwave frequency. Considering the electron cyclotron resonance condition and following scaling laws for the magnetic flux in ECRIS [3] the increased microwave frequency requires an increase of the magnetic field above 2.2T implying the use of superconducting magnets.

2008: A status report of the multipurpose superconducting electron cyclotron resonance ion source.
Abstract: Intense heavy ion beam production with electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) ion sources is a common requirement for many of the accelerators under construction in Europe and elsewhere. An average increase of about one order of magnitude per decade in the performance of ECR ion sources was obtained up to now since the time of pioneering experiment of R. Geller at CEA, Grenoble, and this trend is not deemed to get the saturation at least in the next decade, according to the increased availability of powerful magnets and microwave generators. Electron density above 10(13) cm(-3) and very high current of multiply charged ions are expected with the use of 28 GHz microwave heating and of an adequate plasma trap, with a B-minimum shape, according to the high B mode concept [S. Gammino and G. Ciavola, Plasma Sources Sci. Technol. 5, 19 (1996)]. The MS-ECRIS ion source has been designed following this concept and its construction is underway at GSI, Darmstadt. The project is the result of the cooperation of nine European institutions with the partial funding of EU through the sixth Framework Programme. The contribution of different institutions has permitted to build in 2006-2007 each component at high level of expertise. The description of the major components will be given in the following with a view on the planning of the assembly and commissioning phase to be carried out in fall 2007. An outline of the experiments to be done with the MS-ECRIS source in the next two years will be presented.

2008: The influence of ambipolarity on plasma confinement and on the performance of electron cyclotron resonance ion sources.
Abstract: Charge diffusion in an electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS) discharge is usually characterized by nonambipolar behavior. While the ions are transported to the radial walls, electrons are lost axially from the magnetic trap. Global neutrality is maintained via compensating currents in the conducting walls of the vacuum chamber. It is assumed that this behavior reduces the ion breeding times compared to a truly ambipolar plasma. We have carried out a series of dedicated experiments in which the ambipolarity of the ECRIS plasma was influenced by inserting special metal-dielectric structures (MD layers) into the plasma chamber of the Frankfurt 14 GHz ECRIS. The measurements demonstrate the positive influence on the source performance when the ECR plasma is changed toward more ambipolar behavior.

2007: Status report of the MS-ECRIS construction
Abstract: The design of each component of the Multipurpose Superconducting ECR Ion Source (MS-ECRIS) has been completed and some items are ready. The magnets and the cryostat are under construction at ACCEL and the commissioning is scheduled for March 2007. The mechanical have been optimized and their construction is under way, the microwave system is under refurbishment and the 65kV power supply is available and upgraded for afterglow operations. Pumping and extraction system were adapted to the EIS testbench of GSI Darmstadt. The description of,each part will be given in the paper along with a schedule of the forthcoming development and experiments.

