Recent papers for Segall Adrian:

2018: Connection Management and Rerouting in ATM
Abstract: None

2018: Selection of Paths in HDR
Abstract: In this report we consider the problem of Path Selection in HDR, a Hysteresis Driven Routing Protocol for EnHANTS - networks with Energy Harvesting units. HDR requires selection of two non-necessarily disjoint paths for each source. The paths are alternately used by the source to transmit data. Path selection in HDR leads to the problem of 2-splittable ﬂow in graphs, that has been previously treated in the literature. In this report we model our problem as a 2-splittable ﬂow problem, show that in general it is NP-Hard and provide algorithms for Fair Path Selection under the assumption of a uniform network.

2018: Message from the General Chair
Abstract: Ad hoc networks have attracted the attention of the research community in the last several years. By now, some of the early fundamental issues and challenges of ad hoc networking have been clearly assessed, while new ones emerge as a result of the ever expanding application domain of ad hoc networking. Med-Hoc-Net 2009 is an annual international workshop aiming to serve as a forum where researchers from academia, research labs and the industry from all over the world, meet to share ideas, views, results, and experiences in the field of ad hoc networking. Anything from theoretical and experimental achievements, to innovative ad hoc systems, prototyping efforts, and case studies is of interest to the Med-Hoc-Net community. In spite of the difficulties we faced in the planning stages of the workshop raised by the fighting in the south, we have made every effort to put together a great program, both scientific and social. We would like to thank all the speakers for their willingness to participate in the workshop and to present the most current issues in ad hoc

2017: A Simulation System for Energy Harvesting Networked Tags (EnHANTs)
Abstract: This project is about EnHANTs networks. These networks have self-sustainable energy devices and the communication is performed over wireless links between neighboring devices. Since the devices are very limited in terms of energy, sending the data in these networks has to be as effective as possible and must take into consideration the available amount of energy. Therefore, it is necessary to use algorithms that are specifically designed for this type of networks. In this book we propose strategies for a specific case of these networks. The main part of this project is a MATLAB simulation built in order to examine the behavior of such networks. In the last section of this book, we describe a set of runs of different topologies, in order to test the influence of certain strategy parameters on the behavior of the system.

2015: ACTIVE AND PASSIVE SYNCHRONIZERS
Abstract: Correctness of synchronizers is examined : a synchronizer is said to be correct, if each execution of a protocol created by combining it with a synchronous protocol, is equivalent to some execution of the original (synchronous) protocol. Two families of synchronizers are introduced, passive synchronizers and active synchronizers. Passive synchronizers do not change the original synchronous protocol and only add a synchronization protocol for synchronizing it, while active synchronizers may change the original protocol code, messages, etc. The timely property, which is sufficient and necessary for correctness of passive synchronizers, and the matching property, which is sufficient and necessary for correctness of active synchronizers, are introduced. Lower bounds are set for communication and time complexity of correct passive synchronizers, thus showing that active synchronizers are necessary for low complexities, while retaining the correctness of the synchronIzers. Two types of active synchronizers are introduced: message-monitoring synchronizers, in which synchronizer code is performed as a result of original-protocol message reception and transmission, and variableduplicating synchronizers, which duplicate of all original-protocol variables at each node. A messagemonitoring correct synchronizer with low communication and time complexities is presented. A method is introduced for creating variable-duplicating correct synchronizers from passive incorrect synchronizers, with identical communication and time complexities. One more family of active synchronizers is examined: message-delaying synchronizers. In messagedelaying synchronizers, early messages are saved and treated later. We show that implementation of such synchronizers, using certain passive synchronizers, is not straightforward, since in these cases, nodes may not always know which messages are early and which are timely. Solutions for this problem are suggested. 1 T ec hn io n C om pu te r Sc ie nc e D ep ar tm en t T eh ni ca l R ep or t C S0 70 6. re vi se d 19 91

2015: HDR - a hysteresis-driven routing algorithm for energy harvesting tag networks
Abstract: The work contains a rst attempt to treat the problem of routing in networks with energy harvesting units. We propose HDR - a Hysteresis Based Routing Algorithm and analyse it in a simple diamond network. The results are used to give insight into its application in general topology networks.

2014: A MAC PROTOCOL FOR ROUTE DETERMINATION IN MULTIPLE-RING NETWORKS
Abstract: The issue of routing in multiple-ring networks is considered. A multiple-ring network is an extended LAN , where a number of token-rings are interconnected via bridges. Source routing is a conventional method for routing in such networks. This method requires the source station to determine a route to the destination before starting data transmission. The existing route determination protocol is extremely inefficient in terms of communication. The present paper introduces a new bridge protocol for route determination in multiple-ring network, whose main advantage is its communication efficiency: the number of frames used is the number of rings plus the number of bridges in the network, as opposed to the exponential function needed by the existing protocol.

2014: AN EFFICIENT PRIORITY MECHANISM FOR RINGS
Abstract: The paper presents a new scheme for handling priorities in a token ring Local Area Network. The scheme of the IEEE -802.5 standard suffers from two principal drawbacks that are addressed in the present paper: it allows frame multiplication for a limited duration. and in some situations. a long time is required to achieve the desired priority level. This paper describes and proves a new priority mechanism that satisfies all properties of the standard, while effacing the abovementioned drawbacks.

2013: Transaction Commitment At*minimal Communication Cost (preliminary Version)
Abstract: We consider the communication protocol for transaction commitment in a distributed database. Specifically, the connection between the structure of communication among the participating sites, and the communication network. topology is investigated. In order tp do so, the cost of transaction comrnibnent is defined as the number of • network hops that messages of the protocol must traverse. We establish the necessary cost for ttansaction commitment, and show that it is .. also sufficient. A simple distributed algorithm is presented to prove sufficiency. Our algorithm. is also time-efficient, and in order to prove that we show that the timing of our algorithm is optimal within a natural class of commit-protocols. ~el. (972)(4)293609; csnet address: wolfson@tecb-sel B11NET address: wolfson@TECHSEL T ec hn io n C om pu te r Sc ie nc e D ep ar tm en t T eh ni ca l R ep or t C S0 44 1 19 86

2013: COST AND TIME OF COMMITMENT ALGORITHMS
Abstract: None

2010: A multipath routing algorithm for mobile Wireless Sensor Networks
Abstract: Providing reliable and yet energy efficient routing protocols is of an utmost importance in Wireless Sensor Networks. Wireless Sensor Networks imply multi-hop data forwarding over unreliable and moving nodes. When selecting the appropriate routing paradigm, the main challenge is to find the right equilibrium between the quality of data delivery and the energy invested. Insufficient quality of data delivery may fail the application deployed over the wireless sensor network, while an energy wasteful protocol may significantly shorten the lifetime of the network, thus making the deployment inefficient for its purpose. In this paper we propose a new routing algorithm for WSN's, named the Data Centric Braided Multipath (DCBM) algorithm. The algorithm is designed to achieve and maintain route resiliency through multiple interleaving routing paths, capable to cope with node mobility. Simulations show that the algorithm maintains a delivery ratio similar to the previously suggested protocols, but requires significantly lower control packet overhead. The algorithm has several additional desirable properties, like loop reduction and localized path repair.

2009: Gradient Elution Program: Selection and Important Instrumental Considerations
Abstract: None

2007: On the Analysis of the Bluetooth Time Division Duplex Mechanism
Abstract: Efficient communication in Bluetooth networks requires design of intra and inter-piconet scheduling algorithms, and therefore, numerous algorithms have been proposed. However, due to complexities of the Bluetooth MAC, the performance of these algorithms has been analyzed mostly via simulation. We present analytic results regarding the exhaustive, gated, and limited (pure round robin) scheduling algorithms in piconets with bidirectional and unidirectional traffic. We show that a piconet operated according to the limited scheduling algorithm is equivalent to a 1-limited polling system and present exact results regarding symmetric piconets with bidirectional traffic. Then, the difficulties in analyzing the performance of the exhaustive and gated algorithms in a piconet with bidirectional traffic are demonstrated. In addition, we present exact analytic results for piconets with unidirectional traffic. We show that, surprisingly, in symmetrical piconets with only uplink traffic, the mean waiting time is the same for the exhaustive and limited algorithms. This observation results from the differences between piconets and traditional polling systems and can be extended for time-division-duplex systems with arbitrary packet lengths. Furthermore, we show that the mean waiting time in a piconet with only uplink traffic is significantly higher than its corresponding value in a piconet with only downlink traffic. Finally, we numerically compare the exact results to approximate results, presented in the past.

2007: Threshold-related throughput - A new criterion for evaluation of sensor network performance
Abstract: None

2006: Analysis of bandwidth allocation algorithms for wireless personal area networks
Abstract: None

2005: Guest Editorial Wireless Ad Hoc Networks—Part II
Abstract: None

2004: Capacity Assignment in Bluetooth Scatternets – Optimal and Heuristic Algorithms
Abstract: None

2004: A New Protocol for Route Discovery in Multiple-Ring Networks: Part 1 - the Basic Protocol - Communications, IEEE Transactions on
Abstract: Source routing requires that the source station knows a route to the destination. The paper presents a new bridge protocol for route discovery in multiple-ring networks, where several token-rings are connected by bridges. The protocol gives to the source station an indication of the availability of a route to the destination. If such a route exists, the source is supplied with a description a list of ring and bridge identities of the route that is fastest at the time of protocol execution. The main advantage of the new route discovery protocol over the existing one is its communication efficiency: the number of frames used is the sum of the number of rings and number of bridges in the network, as opposed to the exponential function required in the existing protocol. Another advantage of the new protocol is its option that allows determining routes to multiple destinations, thus supporting efficient multicast source routing. Fig. 1. A Multiple-Ring Network.

2004: Bluetooth time division duplex - analysis as a polling system
Abstract: Efficient communication in Bluetooth networks requires design of intra and inter-piconet scheduling algorithms, and therefore numerous algorithms have been proposed. However, due to complexities of the Bluetooth MAC, the performance of these algorithms has been analyzed mostly via simulation. We present exact analytic results regarding the exhaustive, gated, and limited (pure round robin) scheduling algorithms in piconets with unidirectional traffic. We show that, surprisingly, in symmetrical piconets with only uplink traffic, the mean waiting time is the same for the exhaustive and limited algorithms. This observation is extended for time-division-duplex systems with arbitrary packet lengths. Furthermore, we show that the mean waiting time in a piconet with only uplink traffic is significantly higher than its corresponding value in a piconet with only downlink traffic. We then demonstrate the difficulties in analyzing the performance of the exhaustive and gated algorithms in a piconet with bi-directional traffic. Finally, we numerically compare the exact results to approximate results, presented in the past.

2004: Load-adaptive inter-piconet scheduling in small-scale Bluetooth scatternets
Abstract: Bluetooth enables wireless communication via ad hoc networks. The basic topology (piconet) is a collection of slaves controlled by a master. A scatternet is a multihop network of piconets. We anticipate that most scatternets will be composed of only a few piconets. However, even in small scatternets, efficient data flow requires the design of inter-piconet scheduling algorithms. Thus, this article presents and evaluates a load adaptive scheduling algorithm tailored for small-scale scatternets. The main advantage of this algorithm is the use of the Bluetooth low-power hold mode, which allows greater flexibility than other low-power modes. A simulation model has been developed in order to evaluate the performance of the algorithm. We show that the results obtained by the model are very close to the analytic results. Then we evaluate the performance of various intra-piconet scheduling algorithms. Finally, we present simulation results regarding inter-piconet scheduling, and compare the proposed algorithm to algorithms using the sniff mode.

