Recent papers for Segev Mordechai (Moti):

2023: Three-Dimensional Topological Light Transport Induced by Lattice Dislocations
Abstract: Propagating topological edge states have been extensively studied in two-dimensional photonic topological insulators (TIs) [1]. Apart from other photonic TIs in higher dimensions, 3D TIs have recently been implemented with microwaves [2] and acoustic waves [3], the latter inducing topology through a dislocation. Here we report the first experimental demonstration of a three-dimensional topological insulator at optical frequencies and observe the propagation dynamics of its unidirectional edge states in two spatial and one modal dimensions [4]. In our system, the introduction of a screw dislocation into a weak 3DTI serves to establish a closed 3-dimensional path that encircles the 3D structure around the outer parameter and loops back along the axis of the dislocation.

2023: Non-classical correlation between mode-entangled pairs of surface plasmon polaritons
Abstract: We observe non-classical correlations between single photons outcoupled from surface plasmon modes carrying a superposition of angular momenta. The spatial distribution of the correlation indicates entanglement of surface plasmon pairs in the mode basis.

2023: Photonic Space-Time Topological Edge States
Abstract: We introduce topological edge states in photonic space-time crystals. We show that photonic space-time crystals support propagating edge states and find a unique edge state that grows exponentially in energy whilst following the spatio-temporal edge.

2023: Time-Refraction Optics at Single Cycle Modulation
Abstract: We present an experimental study of optical time-refraction in single-cycle time-interfaces. Specifically, we study the propagation of a probe pulse through a sample undergoing large refractive index changes induced by an intense ultra-short modulator pulse.

2023: Time-Refraction with Moving Time-Interfaces
Abstract: We present an experimental study of time-refraction with propagating time-interfaces. We observe the special spectral signature of time-reflections generated by these interfaces, paving the way for their experimental demonstration in the optical regime.

2023: Self-Cleaning Effect in Synthetic-Space Photonic Topological Insulators
Abstract: We present a topological structure performing a self-cleaning effect in synthetic space, controlled by a homogeneous gain medium in real space, producing a ground-state in both synthetic space and real space.

2023: Photonic time-crystals - fundamental concepts [Invited].
Abstract: Photonic Time-Crystals (PTCs) are materials in which the refractive index varies periodically and abruptly in time. This medium exhibits unusual properties such as momentum bands separated by gaps within which waves can be amplified exponentially, extracting energy from the modulation. This article provides a brief review on the concepts underlying PTCs, formulates the vision and discusses the challenges.

2023: Photonic time crystals: a materials perspective [Invited].
Abstract: Recent advances in ultrafast, large-modulation photonic materials have opened the door to many new areas of research. One specific example is the exciting prospect of photonic time crystals. In this perspective, we outline the most recent material advances that are promising candidates for photonic time crystals. We discuss their merit in terms of modulation speed and depth. We also investigate the challenges yet to be faced and provide our estimation on possible roads to success.

2023: Annihilation of k-gap Solitons in Photonic Time Crystals
Abstract: We study interaction between two k-gap solitons in Photonic-Time-Crystals. We show that they always annihilate each other, regardless of initial power, phase, and direction. The residuals of interaction strongly affect proceeding solitons as cascaded collision.

2023: Orbital angular momentum control in topological laser arrays
Abstract: We propose a method for chirality selection of edge modes in topological laser arrays by applying two-stage turn-on. Symmetry breaking is based on the nonlinearity of gain saturation which is always present in lasers.

2023: Thermalization and Entanglement of Quantum Light in a Nonlinear Multimode System
Abstract: We study how thermodynamic behavior in classical nonlinear optical multimode systems presents itself in quantum many-body settings, and find multimode entanglement arising in the thermalization process.

2023: Increasing Quantum Communication Rates Using Hyperentangled Photonic States
Abstract: Quantum communication is based on the generation of quantum states and exploitation of quantum resources for communication protocols. Currently, photons are considered as the optimal carrier of information, because they enable long-distance transition with resilience to decoherence, and they are relatively easy to create and detect. Entanglement is a fundamental resource for quantum communication and information processing, and it is of particular importance for quantum repeaters [1]. Hyperentanglement [2], a state where parties are entangled with two or more degrees of freedom (DoFs), provides an important additional resource because it increases data rates and enhances error resilience. However, in photonics, the channel capacity, i.e. the ultimate throughput, is fundamentally limited when dealing with linear elements. We propose a technique for achieving higher transmission rates for quantum communication by using hyperentangled states, based on multiplexing multiple DoFs on a single photon, transmitting the photon, and eventually demultiplexing the DoFs to different photons at the destination, using a Bell state measurement. Following our scheme, one can generate two entangled qubit pairs by sending only a single photon. The proposed transmission scheme lays the groundwork for novel quantum communication protocols with higher transmission rate and refined control over scalable quantum technologies.

2023: Photonic Time Quasi-Crystals
Abstract: We study light propagation of electromagnetic waves in a medium with a homogeneous refractive index varying quasi-periodically in time. We study two types of time-varying quasi-crystals: Andrey Aubrey and Fibonacci sequence.

2022: Machine Learning Detection of Quantum Many-Body Localization Phase Transition
Abstract: We propose a scheme for detection of quantum many-body phase transitions using unsupervised machine learning. We validate it on simulated 1D Bose-Hubbard model, and then use it on an experimental 2D system undergoing many-body localization.

2022: Amplified emission and lasing in photonic time crystals
Abstract: Photonic time crystals (PTCs), materials with a dielectric permittivity that is modulated periodically in time, offer new concepts in light manipulation. We study theoretically the emission of light from a radiation source placed inside a PTC and find that radiation corresponding to the momentum bandgap is exponentially amplified, whether initiated by a macroscopic source, an atom, or vacuum fluctuations, drawing the amplification energy from the modulation. The radiation linewidth becomes narrower with time, eventually becoming monochromatic in the middle of the bandgap, which enables us to propose the concept of nonresonant tunable PTC laser. Finally, we find that the spontaneous decay rate of an atom embedded in a PTC vanishes at the band edge because of the low density of photonic states. Description Amplification in photonic time crystals Regular photonic crystals are structures in which the refractive index is spatially periodic and can suppress the spontaneous emission of light from an emitter embedded in the structure. In photonic time crystals, the refractive index is periodically modulated in time on ultrafast time scales. Lyubarov et al. explored theoretically what happens when an emitter is placed in such a time crystal (see the Perspective by Faccio and Wright). In contrast to the regular photonic crystals, the authors found that time crystals should amplify emission, leading to lasing. —ISO Photonic time crystals can amplify emission from an embedded emitter.

2022: Phase retrieval of vortices in Bose-Einstein condensates
Abstract: We propose and demonstrate numerically a measurement scheme for complete reconstruction of the 2D quantum wave function of a Bose-Einstein condensate, amplitude and phase, from a time-of-flight measurement. We identify a fundamental ambiguity present in the measurement of phase structures of high-symmetry excitations (e.g., vortices) and show how to overcome it by allowing for different expansion durations in different directions. We demonstrate this approach with the reconstruction of matter-wave vortices and arrays of vortices.

2022: Photonic topological insulator induced by a dislocation in three dimensions
Abstract: None

2022: Quantum Emission into Synthetic Dimensions
Abstract: We study the emission of a quantum source in a cavity that supports a synthetic lattice of modes. The modal lattice dynamics causes unidirectional frequency shift that has no counterpart in spatial structures.

2022: Light Propagation in Spatio-Temporal Crystals
Abstract: We study light propagation in spatio-temporal photonic crystals: media whose electromagnetic properties vary periodically in both time and space. We find unique eigenmodes inside mixed energy-momentum gaps, extracting energy and momentum from the modulation.

2022: Photonic time-crystals (Conference Presentation)
Abstract: None

