Recent papers for Shaul Markovitch:

2022: Interpreting Embedding Spaces by Conceptualization
Abstract: One of the main methods for semantic interpretation of text is mapping it into a vector in some embedding space. Such vectors can then be used for a variety of text processing tasks. Recently, most embedding spaces are a product of training large language models. One major drawback of this type of representation is its incomprehensibility to humans. Understanding the embedding space is crucial for several important needs, including the need to explain the decision of a system that uses the embedding, the need to debug the embedding method and compare it to alternatives, and the need to detect biases hidden in the model. In this paper, we present a novel method of transforming any embedding space into a comprehensible conceptual space. We first present an algorithm for deriving a conceptual space with dynamic on-demand granularity. We then show a method for transferring any vector in the original incomprehensible space to an understandable vector in the conceptual space. We combine human tests with cross-model tests to show that the conceptualized vectors indeed represent the semantics of the original vectors. We also show how the conceptualized vectors can be used for various tasks including identifying weaknesses in the semantics underlying the original spaces and differences in the semantics of alternative models.

2022: A General Search-Based Framework for Generating Textual Counterfactual Explanations
Abstract: One of the prominent methods for explaining the decision of a machine-learning classifier is by a counterfactual example.
Most current algorithms for generating such examples in the textual domain are based on generative language models. Generative models, however, are trained to minimize a specific loss function in order to fulfill certain requirements for the generated texts. Any change in the requirements may necessitate costly retraining, thus potentially limiting their applicability.
In this paper, we present a general search-based framework for generating counterfactual explanations in the textual domain. 
Our framework is model-agnostic, domain-agnostic, anytime, and does not require retraining in order to adapt to changes in the user requirements. 
We model the task as a search problem in a space where the initial state is the classified text, and the goal state is a text in a given target class. Our framework includes domain-independent modification operators, but can also exploit domain-specific knowledge through specialized operators. The search algorithm attempts to find a text from the target class with minimal user-specified distance from the original classified object.

2020: Knowledge-Based Learning through Feature Generation
Abstract: Machine learning algorithms have difficulties to generalize over a small set of examples. Humans can perform such a task by exploiting vast amount of background knowledge they possess. One method for enhancing learning algorithms with external knowledge is through feature generation. In this paper, we introduce a new algorithm for generating features based on a collection of auxiliary datasets. We assume that, in addition to the training set, we have access to additional datasets. Unlike the transfer learning setup, we do not assume that the auxiliary datasets represent learning tasks that are similar to our original one. The algorithm finds features that are common to the training set and the auxiliary datasets. Based on these features and examples from the auxiliary datasets, it induces predictors for new features from the auxiliary datasets. The induced predictors are then added to the original training set as generated features. Our method was tested on a variety of learning tasks, including text classification and medical prediction, and showed a significant improvement over using just the given features.

2020: A Two-Stage Masked LM Method for Term Set Expansion
Abstract: We tackle the task of Term Set Expansion (TSE): given a small seed set of example terms from a semantic class, finding more members of that class. The task is of great practical utility, and also of theoretical utility as it requires generalization from few examples. Previous approaches to the TSE task can be characterized as either distributional or pattern-based. We harness the power of neural masked language models (MLM) and propose a novel TSE algorithm, which combines the pattern-based and distributional approaches. Due to the small size of the seed set, fine-tuning methods are not effective, calling for more creative use of the MLM. The gist of the idea is to use the MLM to first mine for informative patterns with respect to the seed set, and then to obtain more members of the seed class by generalizing these patterns. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art TSE algorithms. Implementation is available at: https://github.com/ guykush/TermSetExpansion-MPB/

2019: Prototype-Based Chemical Design using Diversity-Driven Generative Models
Abstract: 1

2019: Applying Machine Learning for Identifying Attacks at Run-Time
Abstract: 1

2019: Topology-Agnostic Runtime Detection of OSPF Routing Attacks
Abstract: Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) is one of the most widely deployed interior gateway routing protocols on the Internet. It allows routers to calculate their routing tables within a cluster of networks - an autonomous system (AS). An attacker that leverages OSPF to attack an AS may have a catastrophic effect on it. A single malicious router within an AS can poison the routing tables of all other routers of that AS by sending false routing messages, thereby subverting the entire routing process. Finding attacks on the routing protocol is a demanding task as the exact nature of the attack may be unknown. In this work we present a machine learning-based attack detection scheme that is based on topology-agnostic features. The topology-agnostic features allow the trained algorithm to find attacks on a broad range of topologies, as well as networks with dynamic topologies. We validate the algorithm both on synthetic AS topologies and on real-world ISP topology and traffic. We show that the presented algorithm achieves high detection accuracy within a very short detection time, while false error rate remains low.

2018: Automatic Generation of Language-Independent Features for Cross-Lingual Classification
Abstract: Many applications require categorization of text documents using predefined categories. The main approach to performing text categorization is learning from labeled examples. For many tasks, it may be difficult to find examples in one language but easy in others. The problem of learning from examples in one or more languages and classifying (categorizing) in another is called cross-lingual learning. In this work, we present a novel approach that solves the general cross-lingual text categorization problem. Our method generates, for each training document, a set of language-independent features. Using these features for training yields a language-independent classifier. At the classification stage, we generate language-independent features for the unlabeled document, and apply the classifier on the new representation. 
To build the feature generator, we utilize a hierarchical language-independent ontology, where each concept has a set of support documents for each language involved. In the preprocessing stage, we use the support documents to build a set of language-independent feature generators, one for each language. The collection of these generators is used to map any document into the language-independent feature space. 
Our methodology works on the most general cross-lingual text categorization problems, being able to learn from any mix of languages and classify documents in any other language. We also present a method for exploiting the hierarchical structure of the ontology to create virtual supporting documents for languages that do not have them. We tested our method, using Wikipedia as our ontology, on the most commonly used test collections in cross-lingual text categorization, and found that it outperforms existing methods.

2018: Textual Membership Queries
Abstract: Human labeling of data can be very time-consuming and expensive, yet, in many cases it is critical for the success of the learning process.

In order to minimize human labeling efforts, we propose a novel active learning solution that does not rely on existing sources of unlabeled data. It uses a small amount of labeled data as the core set for the synthesis of useful membership queries (MQs) — unlabeled instances generated by an algorithm for human labeling.



Our solution uses modification operators, functions that modify instances to some extent. We apply the operators on a small set of instances (core set), creating a set of new membership queries.

Using this framework, we look at the instance space as a search space and apply search algorithms in order to generate new examples highly relevant to the learner.

We implement this framework in the textual domain and test it on several text classification tasks and show improved classifier performance as more MQs are labeled and incorporated into the training set.

To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work on membership queries in the textual domain.

2018: Recursive Feature Generation for Knowledge-based Learning
Abstract: When humans perform inductive learning, they often enhance the process with background knowledge. With the increasing availability of well-formed collaborative knowledge bases, the performance of learning algorithms could be significantly enhanced if a way were found to exploit these knowledge bases. In this work, we present a novel algorithm for injecting external knowledge into induction algorithms using feature generation. Given a feature, the algorithm defines a new learning task over its set of values, and uses the knowledge base to solve the constructed learning task. The resulting classifier is then used as a new feature for the original problem. We have applied our algorithm to the domain of text classification using large semantic knowledge bases. We have shown that the generated features significantly improve the performance of existing learning algorithms.

2017: Named Entity Disambiguation for Noisy Text
Abstract: We address the task of Named Entity Disambiguation (NED) for noisy text. We present WikilinksNED, a large-scale NED dataset of text fragments from the web, which is significantly noisier and more challenging than existing news-based datasets. To capture the limited and noisy local context surrounding each mention, we design a neural model and train it with a novel method for sampling informative negative examples. We also describe a new way of initializing word and entity embeddings that significantly improves performance. Our model significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on WikilinksNED while achieving comparable performance on a smaller newswire dataset.

2015: Algorithmic Exam Generation
Abstract: Given a class of students, and a pool of questions in the domain of study, what subset will constitute a "good" exam? Millions of educators are dealing with this difficult problem worldwide, yet exams are still composed manually in non-systematic ways. In this work we present a novel algorithmic framework for exam composition. Our framework requires two input components: a student population represented by a distribution over overlay models, each consisting of a set of mastered abilities, or actions; and a target model ordering that, given any two student models, defines which should be given the higher grade. To determine the performance of a student model on a potential question, we test whether it satisfies a disjunctive action landmark, i.e., whether its abilities are sufficient to follow at least one solution path. We present a novel utility function for evaluating exams, using the described components. An exam is highly evaluated if it is expected to order the student population with high correlation to the target order. The merit of our algorithmic framework is exemplified with real autogenerated questions in the domain of middle-school algebra.

2014: Approximating Hierarchical MV-sets for Hierarchical Clustering
Abstract: The goal of hierarchical clustering is to construct a cluster tree, which can be viewed as the modal structure of a density. For this purpose, we use a convex optimization program that can efficiently estimate a family of hierarchical dense sets in high-dimensional distributions. We further extend existing graph-based methods to approximate the cluster tree of a distribution. By avoiding direct density estimation, our method is able to handle high-dimensional data more efficiently than existing density-based approaches. We present empirical results that demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing ones.

2013: q-OCSVM: A q-Quantile Estimator for High-Dimensional Distributions
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel method that can efficiently estimate a family of hierarchical dense sets in high-dimensional distributions. Our method can be regarded as a natural extension of the one-class SVM (OCSVM) algorithm that finds multiple parallel separating hyperplanes in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We call our method q-OCSVM, as it can be used to estimate q quantiles of a high-dimensional distribution. For this purpose, we introduce a new global convex optimization program that finds all estimated sets at once and show that it can be solved efficiently. We prove the correctness of our method and present empirical results that demonstrate its superiority over existing methods.

2013: Resource-Bounded Selection of Learning Algorithms
Abstract: We present a new setup and a proposed solution for the resource-bounded learning-algorithm selection problem. Our setup assumes that a resource allocation pattern in a meta-learning system can be predefined. We use these predefined patterns to design novel preference utility functions between pairs of learning algorithms. These functions are exploited by a meta-learning process to support the selection of the best estimated learning algorithm when resources are limited. The resource allocation pattern is formulated as a distribution over the allocated execution time, and it may be considered more natural or more convenient in many real-life learning systems in which the pattern can be estimated or refined from previously solved learning tasks. In addition, we introduce a new evaluation methodology that uses an interruptible anytime algorithm to evaluate ranking method performance. This evaluation methodology, combined with a distribution over the allocated execution time, allows us to measure the ranking method’s contribution in terms of its expected estimated error. Finally, we introduce a general anytime learning-algorithm selection framework for operating in a resourcebounded environment. Our framework can be used, for example, in a meta-learning advisory system or in an automated centralized server dealing with thousands of incoming learning tasks.

2012: One-Class Background Model
Abstract: None

2012: Online Speedup Learning for Optimal Planning
Abstract: Domain-independent planning is one of the foundational areas in the field of Artificial Intelligence. A description of a planning task consists of an initial world state, a goal, and a set of actions for modifying the world state. The objective is to find a sequence of actions, that is, a plan, that transforms the initial world state into a goal state. In optimal planning, we are interested in finding not just a plan, but one of the cheapest plans. A prominent approach to optimal planning these days is heuristic state-space search, guided by admissible heuristic functions. Numerous admissible heuristics have been developed, each with its own strengths and weaknesses, and it is well known that there is no single "best" heuristic for optimal planning in general. Thus, which heuristic to choose for a given planning task is a difficult question. This difficulty can be avoided by combining several heuristics, but that requires computing numerous heuristic estimates at each state, and the tradeoff between the time spent doing so and the time saved by the combined advantages of the different heuristics might be high. We present a novel method that reduces the cost of combining admissible heuristics for optimal planning, while maintaining its benefits. Using an idealized search space model, we formulate a decision rule for choosing the best heuristic to compute at each state. We then present an active online learning approach for learning a classifier with that decision rule as the target concept, and employ the learned classifier to decide which heuristic to compute at each state. We evaluate this technique empirically, and show that it substantially outperforms the standard method for combining several heuristics via their pointwise maximum.

2012: Learning to Predict from Textual Data
Abstract: Given a current news event, we tackle the problem of generating plausible predictions of future events it might cause. We present a new methodology for modeling and predicting such future news events using machine learning and data mining techniques. Our Pundit algorithm generalizes examples of causality pairs to infer a causality predictor. To obtain precisely labeled causality examples, we mine 150 years of news articles and apply semantic natural language modeling techniques to headlines containing certain predefined causality patterns. For generalization, the model uses a vast number of world knowledge ontologies. Empirical evaluation on real news articles shows that our Pundit algorithm performs as well as non-expert humans.

2012: Teaching Machines to Learn by Metaphors
Abstract: 
 
 Humans have an uncanny ability to learn new concepts with very few examples. Cognitive theories have suggested that this is done by utilizing prior experience of related tasks. We propose to emulate this process in machines, by transforming new problems into old ones. These transformations are called metaphors. Obviously, the learner is not given a metaphor, but must acquire one through a learning process. We show that learning metaphors yield better results than existing transfer learning methods. Moreover, we argue that metaphors give a qualitative assessment of task relatedness.
 


2012: Learning High-Density Regions for a Generalized Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test in High-Dimensional Data
Abstract: We propose an efficient, generalized, nonparametric, statistical Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for detecting distributional change in high-dimensional data. To implement the test, we introduce a novel, hierarchical, minimum-volume sets estimator to represent the distributions to be tested. Our work is motivated by the need to detect changes in data streams, and the test is especially efficient in this context. We provide the theoretical foundations of our test and show its superiority over existing methods.

