Recent papers for Shaull Almagor:

2024: Temporal segmentation in multi agent path finding with applications to explainability
Abstract: None

2024: Jumping Automata Must Pay
Abstract: Jumping automata are finite automata that read their input in a non-sequential manner, by allowing a reading head to"jump"between positions on the input, consuming a permutation of the input word. We argue that allowing the head to jump should incur some cost. To this end, we propose three quantitative semantics for jumping automata, whereby the jumps of the head in an accepting run define the cost of the run. The three semantics correspond to different interpretations of jumps: the absolute distance semantics counts the distance the head jumps, the reversal semantics counts the number of times the head changes direction, and the Hamming distance measures the number of letter-swaps the run makes. We study these measures, with the main focus being the boundedness problem: given a jumping automaton, decide whether its (quantitative) languages is bounded by some given number k. We establish the decidability and complexity for this problem under several variants.

2024: Two-Way One-Counter Nets Revisited
Abstract: One Counter Nets (OCNs) are finite-state automata equipped with a counter that cannot become negative, but cannot be explicitly tested for zero. Their close connection to various other models (e.g., PDAs, Vector Addition Systems, and Counter Automata) make them an attractive modeling tool. The two-way variant of OCNs (2-OCNs) was introduced in the 1980's and shown to be more expressive than OCNs, so much so that the emptiness problem is undecidable already in the deterministic model (2-DOCNs). In a first part, we study the emptiness problem of natural restrictions of 2-OCNs, under the light of modern results about Vector Addition System with States (VASS). We show that emptiness is decidable for 2-OCNs over \emph{bounded languages} i.e., languages contained in $a_1^*a_2^*\cdots a_k^*$), and decidable and Ackermann-complete for \emph{sweeping} 2-OCNs, where the head direction only changes at the end-markers. Both decidability results revolve around reducing the problem to VASS reachability, but they rely on strikingly different approaches. In a second part, we study the expressive power of 2-OCNs, showing an array of connections between bounded languages, sweeping 2-OCNs, and semilinear languages. Most noteworthy among these connections, is that the bounded languages recognized by sweeping 2-OCNs are precisely those that are semilinear. Finally, we establish an intricate pumping lemma for 2-DOCNs and use it to show that there are OCN languages that are not 2-DOCN recognizable, improving on the known result that there are such 2-OCN languages.

2024: Robin Hood Reachability Bidding Games
Abstract: Two-player graph games are a fundamental model for reasoning about the interaction of agents. These games are played between two players who move a token along a graph. In bidding games, the players have some monetary budget, and at each step they bid for the privilege of moving the token. Typically, the winner of the bid either pays the loser or the bank, or a combination thereof. We introduce Robin Hood bidding games, where at the beginning of every step the richer player pays the poorer a fixed fraction of the difference of their wealth. After the bid, the winner pays the loser. Intuitively, this captures the setting where a regulating entity prevents the accumulation of wealth to some degree. We show that the central property of bidding games, namely the existence of a threshold function, is retained in Robin Hood bidding games. We show that finding the threshold can be formulated as a Mixed-Integer Linear Program. Surprisingly, we show that the games are not always determined exactly at the threshold, unlike their standard counterpart.

2024: 51st International Colloquium on Automata, Languages, and Programming, ICALP 2024, July 8-12, 2024, Tallinn, Estonia
Abstract: None

2023: Jumping Automata over Infinite Words
Abstract: Jumping automata are finite automata that read their input in a non-consecutive manner, disregarding the order of the letters in the word. We introduce and study jumping automata over infinite words. Unlike the setting of finite words, which has been well studied, for infinite words it is not clear how words can be reordered. To this end, we consider three semantics: automata that read the infinite word in some order so that no letter is overlooked, automata that can permute the word in windows of a given size k, and automata that can permute the word in windows of an existentially-quantified bound. We study expressiveness, closure properties and algorithmic properties of these models.

2023: Determinization of Integral Discounted-Sum Automata is Decidable
Abstract: Nondeterministic Discounted-Sum Automata (NDAs) are nondeterministic finite automata equipped with a discounting factor $\lambda>1$, and whose transitions are labelled by weights. The value of a run of an NDA is the discounted sum of the edge weights, where the $i$-th weight is divided by $\lambda^{i}$. NDAs are a useful tool for modelling systems where the values of future events are less influential than immediate ones. While several problems are undecidable or open for NDA, their deterministic fragment (DDA) admits more tractable algorithms. Therefore, determinization of NDAs (i.e., deciding if an NDA has a functionally-equivalent DDA) is desirable. Previous works establish that when $\lambda\in \mathbb{N}$, then every complete NDA, namely an NDA whose states are all accepting and its transition function is complete, is determinizable. This, however, no longer holds when the completeness assumption is dropped. We show that the problem of whether an NDA has an equivalent DDA is decidable when $\lambda\in \mathbb{N}$.

2023: Dimension-Minimality and Primality of Counter Nets
Abstract: A $k$-Counter Net ($k$-CN) is a finite-state automaton equipped with $k$ integer counters that are not allowed to become negative, but do not have explicit zero tests. This language-recognition model can be thought of as labelled vector addition systems with states, some of which are accepting. Certain decision problems for $k$-CNs become easier, or indeed decidable, when the dimension $k$ is small. Yet, little is known about the effect that the dimension $k$ has on the class of languages recognised by $k$-CNs. Specifically, it would be useful if we could simplify algorithmic reasoning by reducing the dimension of a given CN. To this end, we introduce the notion of dimension-primality for $k$-CN, whereby a $k$-CN is prime if it recognises a language that cannot be decomposed into a finite intersection of languages recognised by $d$-CNs, for some $d<k$. We show that primality is undecidable. We also study two related notions: dimension-minimality (where we seek a single language-equivalent $d$-CN of lower dimension) and language regularity. Additionally, we explore the trade-offs in expressiveness between dimension and non-determinism for CN.

2023: Introducing Delays in Multi-Agent Path Finding
Abstract: We consider a Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) setting where agents have been assigned a plan, but during its execution some agents are delayed. Instead of replanning from scratch when such a delay occurs, we propose delay introduction, whereby we delay some additional agents so that the remainder of the plan can be executed safely. We show that finding the minimum number of additional delays is APX-hard. However, in practice we can find optimal delay-introductions using Conflict-Based Search for very large numbers of agents, and both planning time and the resulting length of the plan are comparable, and sometimes outperform the state-of-the-art heuristics for replanning.

2023: Synchronized CTL over One-Counter Automata
Abstract: We consider the model-checking problem of Synchronized Computation-Tree Logic (CTL+Sync) over One-Counter Automata (OCAs). CTL+Sync augments CTL with temporal operators that require several paths to satisfy properties in a synchronous manner, e.g., the property"all paths should eventually see $p$ at the same time". The model-checking problem for CTL+Sync over finite-state Kripke structures was shown to be in $\mathsf{P}^{\mathsf{NP}^{\mathsf{NP}}}$. OCAs are labelled transition systems equipped with a non-negative counter that can be zero-tested. Thus, they induce infinite-state systems whose computation trees are not regular. The model-checking problem for CTL over OCAs was shown to be $\mathsf{PSPACE}$-complete. We show that the model-checking problem for CTL+Sync over OCAs is decidable. However, the upper bound we give is non-elementary. We therefore proceed to study the problem for a central fragment of CTL+Sync, extending CTL with operators that require all paths to satisfy properties in a synchronous manner, and show that it is in $\mathsf{EXP}^\mathsf{NEXP}$ (and in particular in $\mathsf{EXPSPACE}$), by exhibiting a certain"segmented periodicity"in the computation trees of OCAs.

2022: The Geometry of Reachability in Continuous Vector Addition Systems with States
Abstract: We study the geometry of reachability sets of continuous vector addition systems with states (VASS). In particular we establish that they are almost Minkowski sums of convex cones and zonotopes generated by the vectors labelling the transitions of the VASS. We use the latter to prove that short so-called linear path schemes suffice as witnesses of reachability in continuous VASS of fixed dimension. Then, we give new polynomial-time algorithms for the reachability problem for linear path schemes. Finally, we also establish that enriching the model with zero tests makes the reachability problem intractable already for linear path schemes of dimension two.

2022: Conflict-Based Search for Multi-Robot Motion Planning with Kinodynamic Constraints
Abstract: Multi-robot motion planning (MRMP) is the fundamental problem of finding non-colliding trajectories for multiple robots acting in an environment, under kinodynamic constraints. Due to its complexity, existing algorithms are either incomplete, or utilize simplifying assumptions. This work introduces Kinodynamic Conflict-Based Search (K-CBS), a decentralized MRMP algorithm that is general, scalable, and probabilistically complete. The algorithm takes inspiration from successful solutions to the discrete analogue of MRMP over finite graphs, known as Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF). Specifically, we adapt ideas from Conflict-Based Search (CBS)-a popular decentralized MAPF algorithm-to the MRMP setting. The novelty of our approach is that we work directly in the continuous domain, without discretization. In particular, the kinodynamic constraints are treated natively. K-CBS plans for each robot individually using a low-level planner and grows a conflict tree to resolve collisions between robots by defining constraints. The low-level planner can be any sampling-based, tree-search algorithm for kinodynamic robots, thus lifting existing planners for single robots to the multi-robot setting. We show that K-CBS inherits the (probabilistic) completeness of the low-level planner. We illustrate the generality and performance of K-CBS in several case studies and benchmarks.

2022: Concurrent Games with Multiple Topologies
Abstract: Concurrent multi-player games with $\omega$-regular objectives are a standard model for systems that consist of several interacting components, each with its own objective. The standard solution concept for such games is Nash Equilibrium, which is a"stable"strategy profile for the players. In many settings, the system is not fully observable by the interacting components, e.g., due to internal variables. Then, the interaction is modelled by a partial information game. Unfortunately, the problem of whether a partial information game has an NE is not known to be decidable. A particular setting of partial information arises naturally when processes are assigned IDs by the system, but these IDs are not known to the processes. Then, the processes have full information about the state of the system, but are uncertain of the effect of their actions on the transitions. We generalize the setting above and introduce Multi-Topology Games (MTGs) -- concurrent games with several possible topologies, where the players do not know which topology is actually used. We show that extending the concept of NE to these games can take several forms. To this end, we propose two notions of NE: Conservative NE, in which a player deviates if she can strictly add topologies to her winning set, and Greedy NE, where she deviates if she can win in a previously-losing topology. We study the properties of these NE, and show that the problem of whether a game admits them is decidable.

2022: Conflict-Based Search for Explainable Multi-Agent Path Finding
Abstract: The goal of the Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) problem is to find non-colliding paths for agents in an environment, such that each agent reaches its goal from its initial location.
In safety-critical applications, a human supervisor may want to verify that the plan is indeed collision-free. To this end, a recent work introduces a notion of explainability for MAPF based on a visualization of the plan as a short sequence of images representing time segments, where in each time segment the trajectories of the agents are disjoint.
Then, the problem of Explainable MAPF via Segmentation asks for a set of non-colliding paths that admit a short-enough explanation. Explainable MAPF adds a new difficulty to MAPF, in that it is NP-hard with respect to the size of the environment, and not just the number of agents. Thus, traditional MAPF algorithms are not equipped to directly handle Explainable MAPF. In this work, we adapt Conflict Based Search (CBS), a well-studied algorithm for MAPF, to handle Explainable MAPF. We show how to add explainability constraints on top of the standard CBS tree and its underlying A* search. We examine the usefulness of this approach and, in particular, the trade-off between planning time and explainability.

2021: F L ] 8 S ep 2 02 1 GoodEnough Synthesis
Abstract: In the classical synthesis problem, we are given an LTL formula ψ over sets of input and output signals, and we synthesize a system T that realizes ψ: with every input sequences x, the system associates an output sequence T (x) such that the generated computation x⊗T (x) satisfies ψ. In practice, the requirement to satisfy the specification in all environments is often too strong, and it is common to add assumptions on the environment. We introduce and study a new type of relaxation on this requirement. In good-enough synthesis (ge-synthesis), the system is required to generate a satisfying computation only if one exists. Formally, an input sequence x is hopeful if there exists some output sequence y such that the computation x ⊗ y satisfies ψ, and a system ge-realizes ψ if it generates a computation that satisfies ψ on all hopeful input sequences. ge-synthesis is particularly relevant when the notion of correctness is multi-valued (rather than Boolean), and thus we seek systems of the highest possible quality, and when synthesizing autonomous systems, which interact with unexpected environments and are often only expected to do their best. We study ge-synthesis in Boolean and multi-valued settings. In both, we suggest and solve various definitions of ge-synthesis, corresponding to different ways a designer may want to take hopefulness into account. We show that in all variants, ge-synthesis is not computationally harder than traditional synthesis, and can be implemented on top of existing tools. Our algorithms are based on careful combinations of nondeterministic and universal automata. We augment systems that ge-realize their specifications by monitors that provide satisfaction information. In the multi-valued setting, we provide both a worst-case analysis and an expectation-based one, the latter corresponding to an interaction with a stochastic environment.

2021: Determinization of One-Counter Nets
Abstract: One-Counter Nets (OCNs) are finite-state automata equipped with a counter that is not allowed to become negative, but does not have zero tests. Their simplicity and close connection to various other models (e.g., VASS, Counter Machines and Pushdown Automata) make them an attractive model for studying the border of decidability for the classical decision problems. The deterministic fragment of OCNs (DOCNs) typically admits more tractable decision problems, and while these problems and the expressive power of DOCNs have been studied, the determinization problem, namely deciding whether an OCN admits an equivalent DOCN, has not received attention. We introduce four notions of OCN determinizability, which arise naturally due to intricacies in the model, and specifically, the interpretation of the initial counter value. We show that in general, determinizability is undecidable under most notions, but over a singleton alphabet (i.e., 1 dimensional VASS) one definition becomes decidable, and the rest become trivial, in that there is always an equivalent DOCN.

2021: Simulation by Rounds of Letter-to-Letter Transducers
Abstract: Letter-to-letter transducers are a standard formalism for modeling reactive
systems. Often, two transducers that model similar systems differ locally from
one another, by behaving similarly, up to permutations of the input and output
letters within "rounds". In this work, we introduce and study notions of
simulation by rounds and equivalence by rounds of transducers. In our setting,
words are partitioned to consecutive subwords of a fixed length $k$, called
rounds. Then, a transducer $\mathcal{T}_1$ is $k$-round simulated by transducer
$\mathcal{T}_2$ if, intuitively, for every input word $x$, we can permute the
letters within each round in $x$, such that the output of $\mathcal{T}_2$ on
the permuted word is itself a permutation of the output of $\mathcal{T}_1$ on
$x$. Finally, two transducers are $k$-round equivalent if they simulate each
other.
 We solve two main decision problems, namely whether $\mathcal{T}_2$ $k$-round
simulates $\mathcal{T}_1$ (1) when $k$ is given as input, and (2) for an
existentially quantified $k$.
 We demonstrate the usefulness of the definitions by applying them to process
symmetry: a setting in which a permutation in the identities of processes in a
multi-process system naturally gives rise to two transducers, whose $k$-round
equivalence corresponds to stability against such permutations.

2020: Parametrized Universality Problems for One-Counter Nets
Abstract: We study the language universality problem for One-Counter Nets, also known as 1-dimensional Vector Addition Systems with States (1-VASS), parameterized either with an initial counter value, or with an upper bound on the allowed counter value during runs. The language accepted by an OCN (defined by reaching a final control state) is monotone in both parameters. This yields two natural questions: 1) Does there exist an initial counter value that makes the language universal? 2) Does there exist a sufficiently high ceiling so that the bounded language is universal? Although the ordinary universality problem is decidable (and Ackermann-complete) and these parameterized problems seem to reduce to checking basic structural properties of the underlying automaton, we show that in fact both problems are undecidable. We also look into the complexities of the problems for several decidable subclasses, namely for unambiguous, and deterministic systems, and for those over a single-letter alphabet.

2020: Explainable Multi Agent Path Finding
Abstract: Multi Agent Path Finding (MAPF) is the problem of planning paths for agents to reach their targets from their start locations, such that the agents do not collide while executing the plan. In safety-critical systems, the plan is typically checked by a human supervisor, who decides on whether to allow its execution. In such cases, we wish to convince the human that the plan is indeed collision free. To this end, we propose an explanation scheme for MAPF, which bases explanations on simplicity of visual verification by human’s cognitive process. The scheme decomposes a plan into segments such that within each segment, the paths of the agents are disjoint. Then, we can convince the supervisor that the plan is collision free using a small number of images (dubbed an explanation ). In addition, we can measure the simplicity of a plan by the number of segments required for the decomposition. We study the complexity of algorithmic problems that arise by the explanation scheme, as well as the tradeoff between the length (makespan) of a plan and its minimal decomposition. We also provide experimental results of our scheme both in a continuous and in a discrete setting.

2020: Deciding ω-regular properties on linear recurrence sequences
Abstract: We consider the problem of deciding ω-regular properties on infinite traces produced by linear loops. Here we think of a given loop as producing a single infinite trace that encodes information about the signs of program variables at each time step. Formally, our main result is a procedure that inputs a prefix-independent ω-regular property and a sequence of numbers satisfying a linear recurrence, and determines whether the sign description of the sequence (obtained by replacing each positive entry with “+”, each negative entry with “−”, and each zero entry with “0”) satisfies the given property. Our procedure requires that the recurrence be simple, i.e., that the update matrix of the underlying loop be diagonalisable. This assumption is instrumental in proving our key technical lemma: namely that the sign description of a simple linear recurrence sequence is almost periodic in the sense of Muchnik, Sem'enov, and Ushakov. To complement this lemma, we give an example of a linear recurrence sequence whose sign description fails to be almost periodic. Generalising from sign descriptions, we also consider the verification of properties involving semi-algebraic predicates on program variables.

