Recent papers for Shimron Efrat:

2024: Accelerating Low-field MRI: Compressed Sensing and AI for fast noise-robust imaging
Abstract: Portable, low-field Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners are increasingly being deployed in clinical settings. However, critical barriers to their widespread use include low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), generally low image quality, and long scan duration. As these systems can operate in unusual environments, the level and spectral characteristics of the environmental electromagnetic inference (EMI) noise can change substantially across sites and scans, further reducing image quality. Methods for accelerating acquisition and boosting image quality are of critical importance to enable clinically actionable high-quality imaging in these systems. Despite the role that compressed sensing (CS) and artificial intelligence (AI)-based methods have had in improving image quality for high-field MRI, their adoption for low-field imaging is in its infancy, and it is unclear how robust these methods are in low SNR regimes. Here, we investigate and compare leading CS and AI-based methods for image reconstruction from subsampled data and perform a thorough analysis of their performance across a range of SNR values. We compare classical L1-wavelet CS with leading data-driven and model-driven AI methods. Experiments are performed using publicly available datasets and our own low-field and high-field experimental data. Specifically, we apply an unrolled AI network to low-field MRI, and find it outperforms competing reconstruction methods. We prospectively deploy our undersampling methods to accelerate imaging on a 6.5 mT MRI scanner. This work highlights the potential and pitfalls of advanced reconstruction techniques in low-field MRI, paving the way for broader clinical applications.

2024: Code review facility in Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.
Abstract: None

2024: Reference-Free Image Quality Metric for Degradation and Reconstruction Artifacts
Abstract: Image Quality Assessment (IQA) is essential in various Computer Vision tasks such as image deblurring and super-resolution. However, most IQA methods require reference images, which are not always available. While there are some reference-free IQA metrics, they have limitations in simulating human perception and discerning subtle image quality variations. We hypothesize that the JPEG quality factor is representatives of image quality measurement, and a well-trained neural network can learn to accurately evaluate image quality without requiring a clean reference, as it can recognize image degradation artifacts based on prior knowledge. Thus, we developed a reference-free quality evaluation network, dubbed"Quality Factor (QF) Predictor", which does not require any reference. Our QF Predictor is a lightweight, fully convolutional network comprising seven layers. The model is trained in a self-supervised manner: it receives JPEG compressed image patch with a random QF as input, is trained to accurately predict the corresponding QF. We demonstrate the versatility of the model by applying it to various tasks. First, our QF Predictor can generalize to measure the severity of various image artifacts, such as Gaussian Blur and Gaussian noise. Second, we show that the QF Predictor can be trained to predict the undersampling rate of images reconstructed from Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data.

2024: Deep Learning for Accelerated and Robust MRI Reconstruction: a Review
Abstract: Deep learning (DL) has recently emerged as a pivotal technology for enhancing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a critical tool in diagnostic radiology. This review paper provides a comprehensive overview of recent advances in DL for MRI reconstruction. It focuses on DL approaches and architectures designed to improve image quality, accelerate scans, and address data-related challenges. These include end-to-end neural networks, pre-trained networks, generative models, and self-supervised methods. The paper also discusses the role of DL in optimizing acquisition protocols, enhancing robustness against distribution shifts, and tackling subtle bias. Drawing on the extensive literature and practical insights, it outlines current successes, limitations, and future directions for leveraging DL in MRI reconstruction, while emphasizing the potential of DL to significantly impact clinical imaging practices.

2024: Deep learning for accelerated and robust MRI reconstruction
Abstract: None

2023: Sharing Data Is Essential for the Future of AI in Medical Imaging.
Abstract: None

2023: Synthesizing Complex-Valued Multicoil MRI Data from Magnitude-Only Images
Abstract: Despite the proliferation of deep learning techniques for accelerated MRI acquisition and enhanced image reconstruction, the construction of large and diverse MRI datasets continues to pose a barrier to effective clinical translation of these technologies. One major challenge is in collecting the MRI raw data (required for image reconstruction) from clinical scanning, as only magnitude images are typically saved and used for clinical assessment and diagnosis. The image phase and multi-channel RF coil information are not retained when magnitude-only images are saved in clinical imaging archives. Additionally, preprocessing used for data in clinical imaging can lead to biased results. While several groups have begun concerted efforts to collect large amounts of MRI raw data, current databases are limited in the diversity of anatomy, pathology, annotations, and acquisition types they contain. To address this, we present a method for synthesizing realistic MR data from magnitude-only data, allowing for the use of diverse data from clinical imaging archives in advanced MRI reconstruction development. Our method uses a conditional GAN-based framework to generate synthetic phase images from input magnitude images. We then applied ESPIRiT to derive RF coil sensitivity maps from fully sampled real data to generate multi-coil data. The synthetic data generation method was evaluated by comparing image reconstruction results from training Variational Networks either with real data or synthetic data. We demonstrate that the Variational Network trained on synthetic MRI data from our method, consisting of GAN-derived synthetic phase and multi-coil information, outperformed Variational Networks trained on data with synthetic phase generated using current state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, we demonstrate that the Variational Networks trained with synthetic k-space data from our method perform comparably to image reconstruction networks trained on undersampled real k-space data.

2023: K-band: Self-supervised MRI Reconstruction via Stochastic Gradient Descent over K-space Subsets
Abstract: Although deep learning (DL) methods are powerful for solving inverse problems, their reliance on high-quality training data is a major hurdle. This is significant in high-dimensional (dynamic/volumetric) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), where acquisition of high-resolution fully sampled k-space data is impractical. We introduce a novel mathematical framework, dubbed k-band, that enables training DL models using only partial, limited-resolution k-space data. Specifically, we introduce training with stochastic gradient descent (SGD) over k-space subsets. In each training iteration, rather than using the fully sampled k-space for computing gradients, we use only a small k-space portion. This concept is compatible with different sampling strategies; here we demonstrate the method for k-space "bands", which have limited resolution in one dimension and can hence be acquired rapidly. We prove analytically that our method stochastically approximates the gradients computed in a fully-supervised setup, when two simple conditions are met: (i) the limited-resolution axis is chosen randomly-uniformly for every new scan, hence k-space is fully covered across the entire training set, and (ii) the loss function is weighed with a mask, derived here analytically, which facilitates accurate reconstruction of high-resolution details. Numerical experiments with raw MRI data indicate that k-band outperforms two other methods trained on limited-resolution data and performs comparably to state-of-the-art (SoTA) methods trained on high-resolution data. k-band hence obtains SoTA performance, with the advantage of training using only limited-resolution data. This work hence introduces a practical, easy-to-implement, self-supervised training framework, which involves fast acquisition and self-supervised reconstruction and offers theoretical guarantees.

2023: AI in MRI: Computational Frameworks for a Faster, Optimized, and Automated Imaging Workflow
Abstract: Over the last decade, artificial intelligence (AI) has made an enormous impact on a wide range of fields, including science, engineering, informatics, finance, and transportation [...].

2022: Implicit data crimes: Machine learning bias arising from misuse of public data
Abstract: Significance Public databases are an important resource for machine learning research, but their growing availability sometimes leads to “off-label” usage, where data published for one task are used for another. This work reveals that such off-label usage could lead to biased, overly optimistic results of machine-learning algorithms. The underlying cause is that public data are processed with hidden processing pipelines that alter the data features. Here we study three well-known algorithms developed for image reconstruction from magnetic resonance imaging measurements and show they could produce biased results with up to 48% artificial improvement when applied to public databases. We relate to the publication of such results as implicit “data crimes” to raise community awareness of this growing big data problem.

2021: Subtle Inverse Crimes: Naïvely training machine learning algorithms could lead to overly-optimistic results
Abstract: While open databases are an important resource in the Deep Learning (DL) era, they are sometimes used"off-label": data published for one task are used for training algorithms for a different one. This work aims to highlight that in some cases, this common practice may lead to biased, overly-optimistic results. We demonstrate this phenomenon for inverse problem solvers and show how their biased performance stems from hidden data preprocessing pipelines. We describe two preprocessing pipelines typical of open-access databases and study their effects on three well-established algorithms developed for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) reconstruction: Compressed Sensing (CS), Dictionary Learning (DictL), and DL. In this large-scale study we performed extensive computations. Our results demonstrate that the CS, DictL and DL algorithms yield systematically biased results when naively trained on seemingly-appropriate data: the Normalized Root Mean Square Error (NRMSE) improves consistently with the preprocessing extent, showing an artificial increase of 25%-48% in some cases. Since this phenomenon is generally unknown, biased results are sometimes published as state-of-the-art; we refer to that as subtle data crimes. This work hence raises a red flag regarding naive off-label usage of Big Data and reveals the vulnerability of modern inverse problem solvers to the resulting bias.

2020: CORE-Deblur: Parallel MRI Reconstruction by Deblurring using compressed sensing.
Abstract: None

2020: Temporal differences (TED) compressed sensing: a method for fast MRgHIFU temperature imaging
Abstract: None

2020: The Path to Parent-Inclusive Conferences.
Abstract: None

2018: CORE‐PI: Non‐iterative convolution‐based reconstruction for parallel MRI in the wavelet domain
Abstract: PURPOSE
To develop and test a novel parameter-free non-iterative wavelet domain method for reconstruction of undersampled multicoil MR data.


THEORY AND METHODS
A linear parallel MRI method that operates in the Stationary Wavelet Transform (SWT) domain is proposed. The method is coined COnvolution-based REconstruction for Parallel MRI (CORE-PI). This method computes the SWT of the unknown MR image directly from subsampled k-space measurements, without modifying the RF excitation pulse. It then reconstructs the image using the wavelet filter bank approach, with simple linear computations. The CORE-PI implementation is demonstrated by experiments with a numeric brain phantom and in vivo brain scans data, with various wavelet types and high reduction factors. It is compared to the well-known parallel MRI methods GRAPPA and l1-SPIRiT.


RESULTS
The experimental results show that CORE-PI is suitable for different 1D Cartesian k-space undersampling schemes, including regular and irregular ones, and for wavelets of different families. CORE-PI accurately reconstructs the SWT coefficients of the unknown MR image; this wavelet-domain decomposition is fully computed despite the k-space undersampling. Furthermore, CORE-PI provides high-quality final reconstructions, with an average NRMSE of 0.013, which is significantly lower than that obtained by GRAPPA and l1-SPIRiT. Moreover, CORE-PI offers significantly faster computation times: the typical CORE-PI runtime is about 60 seconds, which is about 20% shorter than that of l1-SPIRiT and 55%-75% shorter than that of GRAPPA.


CONCLUSION
COnvolution-based REconstruction for Parallel MRI advantageously offers: (a) flexible 1D undersampling of a Cartesian k-space, (b) a parameter-free non-iterative implementation, (c) reconstruction performance comparable or better than that of GRAPPA and l1-SPIRiT, and (d) robust fast computations.

2017: Joint Sparsity and ”SPID” Calculation of the Stationary Wavelet Transform for Compressed Sensing Reconstruction in Parallel MRI
Abstract: A fast Compressed Sensing (CS) reconstruction scheme for parallel MRI is proposed, utilizing the hybrid “SPID” technique. The proposed method utilizes SPID for calculating the Stationary Wavelet Transform (SWT) of the unknown MR image from the undersampled kspace data; subsequently, it recovers the image through a CS process that promotes joint sparsity of the multi-coils data. In-vivo experiments show that this method eliminates artifacts and expedites the CS convergence.

2015: Utilizing Bochners Theorem for Constrained Evaluation of Missing Fourier Data
Abstract: A method is presented for estimating unknown Fourier domain (k-space) data using a small number of samples in that space. The method is derived from Bochners Theorem, and is termed: Bochner Inequality Completion of K-Space (BICKS). It is suitable for filling the k-space of a real and nonnegative unknown quantity, and applicable even when the sampling rate is substantially lower than the Nyquist sampling rate. The BICKS method is demonstrated in the context of medical imaging, but it is also applicable to many other scientific areas that utilize signal processing in Fourier domain. The results indicate that filling a highly undersampled k-space using BICKS enables high quality image reconstruction.

None: k -band: self-supervised MRI reconstruction trained only on limited-resolution data
Abstract: high-quality

None: Accelerating Ultra-Low Field MRI with Compressed Sensing
Abstract: Portable MRI scanners that operate at very low magnetic fields are increasingly being deployed in clinical settings. However, the intrinsic low signal-to-noise (SNR) ratio of these low-field MRI scanners often necessitates many signal averages, and therefore excessively long acquisition times. Here we propose to improve SNR through optimized k-space undersampling and Compressed Sensing reconstruction. We demonstrate this approach for 6.5 mT ultra-low-field MRI using: (1) retrospective-subsampling experiments with 2x to 4x acceleration; (2) prospectively-subsampled data acquired from a human brain phantom with a 6.5mT MRI. The results exhibit a higher SNR than the traditional averaging method, without increasing scan time.

None: Rigorous Uncertainty Estimation for MRI Reconstruction
Abstract: Deep-learning (DL)-based MRI reconstructions have shown great potential to reduce scan time while maintaining diagnostic image quality. However, their adoption has been plagued with fears that the models will hallucinate or eliminate important anatomical features. To address this issue, we develop a framework to identify when and where a reconstruction model is producing potentially misleading results. Specifically, our framework produces confidence intervals at each pixel of a reconstruction image such that 95% of these intervals contain the true pixel value with high probability. In-vivo 2D knee and brain reconstruction results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed uncertainty estimation framework.

