Recent papers for Shlomo Moran:

2025: Self-masking for hardening inversions
Abstract: None

2023: Diagonalization Games
Abstract: We study several variants of a combinatorial game which is based on Cantor's diagonal argument. The game is between two players called Kronecker and Cantor. The names of the players are motivated by the known fact that Leopold Kronecker did not appreciate Georg Cantor's arguments about the infinite, and even referred to him as a"scientific charlatan". In the game Kronecker maintains a list of m binary vectors, each of length n, and Cantor's goal is to produce a new binary vector which is different from each of Kronecker's vectors, or prove that no such vector exists. Cantor does not see Kronecker's vectors but he is allowed to ask queries of the form"What is bit number j of vector number i?"What is the minimal number of queries with which Cantor can achieve his goal? How much better can Cantor do if he is allowed to pick his queries \emph{adaptively}, based on Kronecker's previous replies? The case when m=n is solved by diagonalization using n (non-adaptive) queries. We study this game more generally, and prove an optimal bound in the adaptive case and nearly tight upper and lower bounds in the non-adaptive case.

2022: Brief Announcement: Self Masking for Hardening Inversions
Abstract: None

2022: Self Masking for Hardering Inversions
Abstract: None

2021: Elementary Derivations of the Euclidean Hurwitz Algebras Adapted from Gadi Moran’s last paper
Abstract: Abstract “Real Normed Algebras Revisited,” the last paper of the late Gadi Moran, attempts to reconstruct the discovery of the complex numbers, the quaternions, and the octonions, as well as proofs of their properties, using only what was known to 19th-century mathematicians. In his research, Gadi had discovered simple and elegant proofs of the above-mentioned classical results using only basic properties of the geometry of Euclidean spaces and tools from high school geometry. His reconstructions underline an interesting connection between Euclidean geometry and these algebras, and avoid the advanced machinery used in previous derivations of these results. The goal of this article is to present Gadi’s derivations in a way that is accessible to a wide audience of readers.

2020: Elementary Derivations of the Real Composition Algebras
Abstract: ``Real Normed Algebras Revisited,'' the last paper of the late Gadi Moran, attempts to reconstruct the discovery of the complex numbers, the quaternions and the octonions, as well as proofs of their properties, using only what was known to 19th century mathematicians. In his research, Gadi had discovered simple and elegant proofs of the above-mentioned classical results using only basic properties of the geometry of Euclidean spaces and tools from high school geometry. His reconstructions underline an interesting connection between Euclidean geometry and these algebras, and avoid the advanced machinery used in previous derivations of these results. The goal of this article is to present Gadi's derivations in a way that is accessible to a wide audience of readers.

2020: Adjustable Coins
Abstract: Abstract In this paper we consider a scenario where there are several algorithms for solving a given problem. Each algorithm is associated with a probability of success and a cost, and there is also a penalty for failing to solve the problem. The user may run one algorithm at a time for the specified cost, or give up and pay the penalty. The probability of success may be implied by randomization in the algorithm, or by assuming a probability distribution on the input space, which lead to different variants of the problem. The goal is to minimize the expected cost of the process under the assumption that the algorithms are independent. We study several variants of this problem, and present possible solution strategies and a hardness result.

2019: MinMax algorithms for stabilizing consensus
Abstract: None

2019: The Firing Squad Problem Revisited
Abstract: In the classical firing squad problem, an unknown number of nodes represented by identical finite state machines is arranged on a line and in each time unit each node may change its state according to its neighbors' states. Initially all nodes are passive, except one specific node located at an end of the line, which issues a fire command. This command needs to be propagated to all other nodes, so that eventually all nodes simultaneously enter some designated ``firing" state. 
 
A natural extension of the firing squad problem, introduced in this paper, allows each node to postpone its participation in the squad for an arbitrary time, possibly forever, and firing is allowed only after all nodes decided to participate. This variant is highly relevant in the context of decentralized distributed computing, where processes have to coordinate for initiating various tasks simultaneously. 
 
The main goal of this paper is to study the above variant of the firing squad problem under the assumptions that the nodes are infinite state machines, and that the inter-node communication links can be changed arbitrarily in each time unit, i.e., are defined by a dynamic graph. In this setting, we study the following fundamental question: what connectivity requirements enable a solution to the firing squad problem? 
Our main result is an exact characterization of the dynamic graphs for which the firing squad problem can be solved. When restricted to static directed graphs, this characterization implies that the problem can be solved if and only if the graph is strongly connected. We also discuss how information on the number of nodes or on the diameter of the network, and the use of randomization, can improve the solutions to the problem.

2018: Comparing evolutionary distances via adaptive distance functions.
Abstract: None

2017: Adaptive methods for computing and comparing evolutionary distances
Abstract: 1

2017: Synchronization in Dynamic Networks
Abstract: In this article, we study algorithms for dynamic networks with asynchronous start, i.e., each node may start running the algorithm in a different round. Inactive nodes transmit only heartbeats, which contain no information but can be detected by active nodes. We make no assumption on the way the nodes are awakened, except that for each node u there is a time $s_u$ in which it is awakened and starts to run the algorithm. The identities of the nodes are not mutually known, and the network size is unknown as well. 
We present synchronization algorithms, which guarantee that after a finite number of rounds, all nodes hold the same round number, which is incremented by one each round thereafter. We study the time complexity and message size required for synchronization, and specifically for simultaneous synchronization, in which all nodes synchronize their round numbers at exactly the same round. 
We show that there is a strong relation between the complexity of simultaneous synchronization and the connectivity of the dynamic graphs: With high connectivity which guarantees that messages can be broadcasted in a constant number of rounds, simultaneous synchronization by all nodes can be obtained by a deterministic algorithm within a constant number of rounds, and with messages of constant size. With a weaker connectivity, which only guarantees that the broadcast time is proportional to the network size, our algorithms still achieve simultaneous synchronization, but within linear time and long messages. 
We also discuss how information on the network size and randomization may improve synchronization algorithms, and show related impossibility results.

2014: THE ROUND COMPLEXITY OF lS 0 LVABLE TASKS
Abstract: A distributed task T is I-solvable if there exists a protocol that solves it in the presence of (at most) one crash failure. A precise characterization of the I-solvable tasks was given in [BMZ]. In this paper we detennine the number of rounds of communication that are required, in the worst case, by a protocol which I-solves a given I-solvable task T for n processors. We define the radius R(T) of T, and show that if R (T) is finite, then this number is 8(logn R (T) ); more precisely, we give a lower bound of logn(n_l)R (T), and an upper bound of 2+rlog(n-l)R (T~. The upper bound implies, for example, that each of the following tasks: renaming, order preserving renaming ([ABDKPRJ) and binary monotone consensus [BMZ] can be solved in the presence of one fault in 3 rounds of communications. All previ­ ous protocols that I-solved these tasks required Q(n) rounds. The result is also generalized to tasks whose radii are not bounded, e.g., the approximate consensus and its variants [DLPSW , BMZ].

2014: DECIDING I·SOLVABILITY OF DISTRIBUTED TASKS IS NP.HARD
Abstract: The question of which distributed tasks can be solved by asynchronous protocols in the presence of crash failures has been widely investigated in recent years. Most of these studies investigate the sol­ vability of specific tasks, providing both positive and negative results. However, the general question whether there is an algorithm that receives as an input a specification of a distributed task T for N pro­ . cessors and a number I, and decides whether T is solvable in the presence of at most 1 crash failures, was " less studied. In fact, we are not aware of any published proof that this problem is decidable, even when restricted to finite tasks (which are given by a finite list of input-output relation). In this paper we provide partial results concerning this question. For this, we use a result in [BMZ1, which associates with each distributed task certain graphs, that enable us to deteonine whether this task can be solved in the presence of one faulty processor. We use that characterization to show that the above problem is NP complete for 1=1 and N ~ 3, and NP hard for any fixed t and N > 21. I A prdiminary venion of this paper appeared in lite proceedingl of lite 16th inr.ematiooal wortclhop on grapb-lheoretic con­ ccplI in canpur.er ac:iencc, Berlin, June 1990. Thil relearch wal lupported in part by Teclmion V.P.R. Fwdl Wellner Resean:h Fund and Loewengart Rescardt Fund, by lite I. Goldberg Fund for Electronics Research, and by lite Foundation for Relcart:h in B1e<:trooics, Computen and Commllllications. administrated by the Israel Academy of Sciencel and Humanities. -

2014: The Wakeup Problem * • ( DRAFT )
Abstract: We study a new problem, the wakeup problem, that seems to be very fundamental in distributed computing. We present efficient solutions to the problem and show how these solutions can be used to solve the consensus problem, the leader election prob­ lem, and other related problems. The main question we try to answer is, how much memory is needed to solve the wakeup problem? We assume a model that captures important properties of real systems that have been largely ignored by previous work on cooperative problems.

2012: Simple and optimal randomized fault-tolerant rumor spreading
Abstract: None

2012: Fast Fault Tolerant Rumor Spreading with Minimum Message Complexity
Abstract: We study fault tolerant rumor spreading algorithms in the complete graph topology. Our focus is on algorithms that use minimum communication both in a global and local sense: they establish the minimum possible number of inter-processor connections in total, and in each round each processor is involved in at most one connection. The challenge is in designing such algorithms that have an asymptotically optimal, that is, logarithmic, time complexity even in the presence of failed nodes. We rst show, using a coupling argument, that if nodes are crashed not adversarially, but independently at random with constant probability less than one, then already the basic GP algorithm of Gasieniec and Pelc (Parallel Computing 22:903{912, 1996) with high probability has an asymptotically optimal O(logn) time complexity. This improves signicantly over the worst-case guarantee of f +O(logn) given there for f crashed nodes. We then show that by adding randomization to the algorithm, these time and communication complexities can be maintained also against adversarial failures. This is easily achieved by running the GP-algorithm with randomly permuted node labels , at the price, however, of increasing the communication overhead to an average (log

2012: Advanced Topics in Algorithms
Abstract: [1] Alok Aggarwal, Maria M. Klawe, Shlomo Moran, Peter W. Shor, and Robert E. Wilber. Geometric applications of a matrix-searching algorithm. Algorithmica, 2:195–208, 1987. [2] M.T. de Berg, O. Schwarzkopf, M.J. van Kreveld, and M. Overmars. Computational Geometry: Algorithms and Applications. Springer-Verlag, 2000. [3] Haim Kaplan, Shay Mozes, Yahav Nussbaum, and Micha Sharir. Submatrix maximum queries in monge matrices and monge partial matrices, and their applications. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Third Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), pages 338–355, 2012. [4] Robert E. Wilber. The concave least-weight subsequence problem revisited. J. Algorithms, 9(3):418–425, 1988.

2012: Fast and reliable reconstruction of phylogenetic trees with indistinguishable edges
Abstract: Phylogenetic reconstruction methods attempt to reconstruct a tree describing the evolution of a given set of species using sequences of characters (e.g. DNA) extracted from these species as input. A central goal in this area is to design algorithms which guarantee reliable reconstruction of the tree from short input sequences, assuming common stochastic models of evolution. The fast converging reconstruction algorithms introduced in the last decade dramatically reduced the sequence length required to guarantee accurate reconstruction of the entire tree. However, if the tree in question contains even few edges which cannot be reliably reconstructed from the input sequences, then known fast converging algorithms may fail to reliably reconstruct all or most of the other edges. This calls for an adaptive approach suggested in this paper, called adaptive fast convergence, in which the set of edges which can be reliably reconstructed gradually increases with the amount of information (length of input sequences) available to the algorithm.

2011: Stochastic errors vs. modeling errors in distance based phylogenetic reconstructions
Abstract: None

