Recent papers for Shmuel Zaks:

2021: Multicast Communications with Varying Bandwidth Constraints
Abstract: To find a maximum number of communication requests that can be satisfied concurrently, is a fundamental network scheduling problem. In this work we investigate the problem of finding a maximum number of multicast requests that can be scheduled simultaneously in a tree network in which the edges and links have heterogeneous bandwidth limitations.This problem generalizes two problems studied in the literature: maximum k-colorable subgraph in chordal graphs, maximum multi-commodity flow in trees. The problem is NP-hard and admits a 1.585-approximation in the special case of homogeneous bandwidth limitations.We first show that the problem is harder to approximate when the bandwidth limitations are heterogeneous, i.e. vary from link to link and from node to node. We then generalize of a classical algorithm and obtain an M-approximation where M is the maximum number of leaves of the communication subtrees. Surprisingly, variants of the same algorithm, are used in the literature at least four times to solve related problems. There exists a polynomial-time algorithm for the special case of unicast requests and star topology. We generalize this result and relax the second requirement so that the set of unicast requests share a common vertex with no restriction on the tree topology.

2021: On the Online Coalition Structure Generation Problem
Abstract: We consider the online version of the coalition structure generation problem, in which agents, corresponding to the vertices of a graph, appear in an online fashion and have to be partitioned into coalitions by an authority (i.e., an online algorithm). When an agent appears, the algorithm has to decide whether to put the agent into an existing coalition or to create a new one containing, at this moment, only her. The decision is irrevocable. The objective is partitioning agents into coalitions so as to maximize the resulting social welfare that is the sum of all coalition values. We consider two cases for the value of a coalition: (1) the sum of the weights of its edges, and (2) the sum of the weights of its edges divided by its size. 
Coalition structures appear in a variety of application in AI, multi-agent systems, networks, as well as in social networks, data analysis, computational biology, game theory, and scheduling. For each of the coalition value functions we consider the bounded and unbounded cases depending on whether or not the size of a coalition can exceed a given value α. Furthermore, we consider the case of a limited number of coalitions and various weight functions for the edges, i.e., unrestricted, positive and constant weights. We show tight or nearly tight bounds for the competitive ratio in each case.

2021: Approximation algorithms for maximum weight k-coverings of graphs by packings
Abstract: Let [Formula: see text] be a family of graphs and let [Formula: see text] be a set of connected graphs, each with at most [Formula: see text] vertices, [Formula: see text] fixed. A [Formula: see text]-packing of a graph GA is a vertex induced subgraph of GA with every connected component isomorphic to a member of [Formula: see text]. A maximum weight [Formula: see text]-covering of a graph GA by [Formula: see text]-packings, is a maximum weight subgraph of GA exactly covered by [Formula: see text] vertex disjoint [Formula: see text]-packings. For a graph [Formula: see text] let [Formula: see text](GA) be a graph, every vertex [Formula: see text] of which corresponds to a vertex subgraph [Formula: see text] of GA isomorphic to a member of [Formula: see text], two vertices [Formula: see text] of [Formula: see text](GA) being adjacent if and only if [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] have common vertices or interconnecting edges. The closed neighborhoods containment graph [Formula: see text] of a graph [Formula: see text], is the graph with vertex set [Formula: see text] and edges directed from vertices [Formula: see text] to [Formula: see text] if and only if they are adjacent in GA and the closed neighborhood of [Formula: see text] is contained in the closed neighborhood of [Formula: see text]. A graph [Formula: see text] is a [Formula: see text] reduced graph if it can be obtained from a graph [Formula: see text] by deleting the edges of a transitive subgraph [Formula: see text] of CNCG(GA). We describe 1.582-approximation algorithms for maximum weight [Formula: see text]-coverings by [Formula: see text]-packings of [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] reduced graphs when [Formula: see text] is vertex hereditary, has an algorithm for maximum weight independent set and [Formula: see text]. These algorithms can be applied to families of interval filament, subtree filament, weakly chordal, AT-free and circle graphs, to find 1.582 approximate maximum weight [Formula: see text]-coverings by vertex disjoint induced matchings, dissociation sets, forests whose subtrees have at most [Formula: see text] vertices, etc.

2021: The Traffic Grooming Problem in Optical Networks with Respect to ADMs and OADMs: Complexity and Approximation
Abstract: All-optical networks transmit messages along lightpaths in which the signal is transmitted using the same wavelength in all the relevant links. We consider the problem of switching cost minimization in these networks. Specifically, the input to the problem under consideration is an optical network modeled by a graph G, a set of lightpaths modeled by paths on G, and an integer g termed the grooming factor. One has to assign a wavelength (modeled by a color) to every lightpath, so that every edge of the graph is used by at most g paths of the same color. A lightpath operating at some wavelength λ uses one Add/Drop multiplexer (ADM) at both endpoints and one Optical Add/Drop multiplexer (OADM) at every intermediate node, all operating at a wavelength of λ. Two lightpaths, both operating at the same wavelength λ, share the ADMs and OADMs in their common nodes. Therefore, the total switching cost due to the usage of ADMs and OADMs depends on the wavelength assignment. We consider networks of ring and path topology and a cost function that is a convex combination α·|OADMs|+(1−α)|ADMs| of the number of ADMs and the number of OADMs deployed in the network. We showed that the problem of minimizing this cost function is NP-complete for every convex combination, even in a path topology network with g=2. On the positive side, we present a polynomial-time approximation algorithm for the problem.

2019: Complexity and Online Algorithms for Minimum Skyline Coloring of Intervals
Abstract: None

2019: Hierarchical b-Matching
Abstract: None

2019: Maximizing Communication Throughput in Tree Networks
Abstract: A widely studied problem in communication networks is that of finding the maximum number of communication requests that can be concurrently scheduled, provided that there are at most $k$ requests that pass through any given edge of the network. In this work we consider the problem of finding the largest number of given subtrees of a tree that satisfy given load constraints. This is an extension of the problem of finding a largest induced $k$-colorable subgraph of a chordal graph (which is the intersection graph of subtrees of a tree). We extend a greedy algorithm that solves the latter problem for interval graphs, and obtain an $M$-approximation for chordal graphs where $M$ is the maximum number of leaves of the subtrees in the representation of the chordal graph. This implies a 2-approximation for \textsc{Vpt}} graphs (vertex-intersection graphs of paths in a tree), and an optimal algorithm for the class of directed path graphs (vertex-intersection graphs of paths in a directed tree) which in turn extends the class of interval graphs. 
In fact, we consider a more general problem that is defined on the subtrees of the representation of chordal graphs, in which we allow any set of different bounds on the vertices and edges. Thus our algorithm generalizes the known one in two directions: first, it applies to more general graph classes, and second, it does not require the same bound for all the edges (of the representation). Last, we present a polynomial-time algorithm for the general problem where instances are restricted to paths in a star.

2019: Multicast Communications in Tree Networks with Heterogeneous Capacity Constraints
Abstract: A widely studied problem in communication networks is that of finding the maximum number of communication requests that can be scheduled concurrently, subject to node and/or link capacity constraints. In this paper, we consider the problem of finding the largest number of multicast communication requests that can be serviced simultaneously by a network of tree topology, subject to heterogeneous capacity constraints. This problem generalizes the following two problems studied in the literature: a) the problem of finding a largest induced $k$-colorable subgraph of a chordal graph, b) the maximum multi-commodity flow problem in tree networks. 
The problem is already known to be NP-hard and to admit a $c$-approximation ($c \approx 1.58$) in the case of homogeneous capacity constraints. We first show that the problem is much harder to approximate in the heterogeneous case. We then use a generalization of a classical algorithm to obtain an $M$-approximation where $M$ is the maximum number of leaves of the subtrees representing the multicast communications. Surprisingly, the same algorithm, though in various disguises, is used in the literature at least four times to solve related problems (though the analysis is different). 
The special case of the problem where instances are restricted to unicast communications in a star topology network is known to be polynomial-time solvable. We extend this result and show that the problem can be solved in polynomial time for a set of paths in a tree that share a common vertex.

2018: Chapter 2 Traffic Grooming : Combinatorial Results and Practical Resolutions
Abstract: In an optical network using the wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) technology, routing a request consists of assigning it a route in the physical network and a wavelength. If each request uses 1/g of the bandwidth of the wavelength, we will say that the grooming factor is g. That means that on a given edge of the network we can groom (group) at most g requests on the same wavelength. With this constraint the objective can be either to minimize the number of wavelengths (related to the transmission cost) or minimize the number of Add/Drop Multiplexers (shortly ADM ) used in the network (related to the cost of the nodes). Here, we first survey the main theoretical results obtained for different grooming Tibor Cinkler Department of Telecommunications and Media Informatics, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Budapest, Hungary, e-mail: cinkler@tmit.bme.hu David Coudert MASCOTTE, INRIA, I3S, CNRS UMR6070, University of Nice-Sophia Antipolis, France, e-mail: David.Coudert@sophia.inria.fr Ignasi Sau MASCOTTE, INRIA, I3S, CNRS UMR6070, University of Nice-Sophia Antipolis, France, and Graph Theory and Combinatorics Group, Department of Applied Mathematics IV, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain, e-mail: Ignasi.Sau@sophia.inria.fr Michele Flammini, Gianpiero Monaco, Luca Moscardelli Dipartimento di Informatica, Università degli Studi dell’Aquila, Via Vetoio, Loc. Coppito, 67100 L’Aquila, Italy, e-mail: flammini,gianpiero.monaco,moscardelli@di.univaq.

2018: Online Coalition Structure Generation in Graph Games
Abstract: We consider the online version of the coalition structure generation in graph games problem, where agents are vertices in a graph. After each step t , in which the t -th agent appears in an online fashion, agents are partitioned into $c(t)$ coalitions $\clust(t)=\\C_1^t, \C_2^t, ldots, \C_c(t) ^t \ $, such that every agent belongs to exactly one coalition $C_i^t$. When an agent appears, it may either join an existing coalition or form a new one having it as the only agent. The profit of a such a coalition structure $\clust(t)$ is the sum of the profits of its coalitions. We consider two cases for the profit of a coalition: (1) the sum of the weights of its edges (which represents the total profit of the agents in the coalition), and (2) the sum of the weights of its edges divided by its size (which represents the average profit of the agents in the coalition). Such coalition structures appear in a variety of application in AI, multi-agent systems, networks, as well as in social networks, data analysis, computational biology, game theory, and scheduling. For each of the profit functions we consider the bounded and unbounded cases depending on whether or not the size of a coalition can exceed a given value α. Furthermore, we consider the case of a limited number of coalitions and various weight functions for the edges, namely the cases of unrestricted, positive and constant weights. We show tight or nearly tight bounds for the competitive ratio in each case.

2018: The Layout of Virtual Paths in ATM
Abstract: None

2017: Optimizing bandwidth allocation in elastic optical networks with application to scheduling
Abstract: None

2016: On the complexity of the regenerator location problem treewidth and other parameters
Abstract: None

2016: Graphs of edge-intersecting and non-splitting paths
Abstract: None

2016: Enhanced Content Update Dissemination Through D2D in 5G Cellular Networks
Abstract: Opportunistic traffic offloading has been proposed to tackle overload problems in cellular networks. However, existing proposals only address device-to-device-based offloading techniques with deadline-based data propagation, and neglect content injection procedures. In contrast, we tackle the offloading issue from another perspective: the base station interference coordination problem during content injection. In particular, we focus on dissemination of contents, and aim at the minimization of the total transmission time spent by base stations to inject the contents into the network. We leverage the almost blank sub-frame technique to keep under control the intercell interference in such a process. We formulate an optimization problem, prove that it is NP-hard and NP-complete, and propose a near-optimal heuristic to solve it. Our algorithm substantially outperforms classical intercell interference approaches, as we evaluate through the simulation of LTE-A networks.

2016: SLEEPWELL: Energy Efficient Network Design for the Developing World Using Green Switches
Abstract: Internet is growing rapidly in the developing world now. Stringent budget constraints give rise to networks with tree topology, leaving lesser room to apply energy savings methods proposed in the last decade as there are no redundant links or nodes in the network. In this paper, we propose SLEEPWELL, design of energy efficient network topology using energy aware networking devices. We divide users according to their profile of network usage and users with similar profile are all connected to one switch to allow the switch to sleep. We evaluate our framework using real data collected from the Local Area Network of IIT Kanpur (an Indian university) having more than ten thousand network users. Results show that even in a tree topology, SLEEPWELL achieves substantial energy gains, up to 22% using energy-efficient hardware, without compromising performance. We also show that dividing users in just two profiles accounts for more than 90% of the total energy saved using SLEEPWELL. We also evaluate the overheads occurred and show that the extra cost incurred can be recovered within two years for most of the practical scenarios.

2016: Constructing minimum changeover cost arborescenses in bounded treewidth graphs
Abstract: None

2016: Graphs of edge-intersecting non-splitting paths in a tree: Representations of holes - Part I
Abstract: None

2016: On-line maximum matching in complete multi-partite graphs with an application to optical networks
Abstract: None

2016: Energy-optimal collaborative file distribution in wired networks
Abstract: None

