Recent papers for Shoham Sabach:

2025: A Proximal Operator for Inducing 2:4-Sparsity
Abstract: Recent hardware advancements in AI Accelerators and GPUs allow to efficiently compute sparse matrix multiplications, especially when 2 out of 4 consecutive weights are set to zero. However, this so-called 2:4 sparsity usually comes at a decreased accuracy of the model. We derive a regularizer that exploits the local correlation of features to find better sparsity masks in trained models. We minimize the regularizer jointly with a local squared loss by deriving the proximal operator for which we show that it has an efficient solution in the 2:4-sparse case. After optimizing the mask, we use maskedgradient updates to further minimize the local squared loss. We illustrate our method on toy problems and apply it to pruning entire large language models up to 70B parameters. On models up to 13B we improve over previous state of the art algorithms, whilst on 70B models we match their performance.

2025: ProxSparse: Regularized Learning of Semi-Structured Sparsity Masks for Pretrained LLMs
Abstract: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional performance in natural language processing tasks, yet their massive size makes serving them inefficient and costly. Semi-structured pruning has emerged as an effective method for model acceleration, but existing approaches are suboptimal because they focus on local, layer-wise optimizations using heuristic rules, failing to leverage global feedback. We present ProxSparse, a learning-based framework for mask selection enabled by regularized optimization. ProxSparse transforms the rigid, non-differentiable mask selection process into a smoother optimization procedure, allowing gradual mask exploration with flexibility. ProxSparse does not involve additional weight updates once the mask is determined. Our extensive evaluations on 7 widely used models show that ProxSparse consistently outperforms previously proposed semi-structured mask selection methods with significant improvement, demonstrating the effectiveness of our learned approach towards semi-structured pruning.

2024: A dual-based first-order algorithm for ToA asynchronous localization and synchronization
Abstract: None

2024: Comparing Few to Rank Many: Active Human Preference Learning using Randomized Frank-Wolfe
Abstract: We study learning of human preferences from a limited comparison feedback. This task is ubiquitous in machine learning. Its applications such as reinforcement learning from human feedback, have been transformational. We formulate this problem as learning a Plackett-Luce model over a universe of $N$ choices from $K$-way comparison feedback, where typically $K \ll N$. Our solution is the D-optimal design for the Plackett-Luce objective. The design defines a data logging policy that elicits comparison feedback for a small collection of optimally chosen points from all ${N \choose K}$ feasible subsets. The main algorithmic challenge in this work is that even fast methods for solving D-optimal designs would have $O({N \choose K})$ time complexity. To address this issue, we propose a randomized Frank-Wolfe (FW) algorithm that solves the linear maximization sub-problems in the FW method on randomly chosen variables. We analyze the algorithm, and evaluate it empirically on synthetic and open-source NLP datasets.

2024: MADA: Meta-Adaptive Optimizers through hyper-gradient Descent
Abstract: Following the introduction of Adam, several novel adaptive optimizers for deep learning have been proposed. These optimizers typically excel in some tasks but may not outperform Adam uniformly across all tasks. In this work, we introduce Meta-Adaptive Optimizers (MADA), a unified optimizer framework that can generalize several known optimizers and dynamically learn the most suitable one during training. The key idea in MADA is to parameterize the space of optimizers and dynamically search through it using hyper-gradient descent during training. We empirically compare MADA to other popular optimizers on vision and language tasks, and find that MADA consistently outperforms Adam and other popular optimizers, and is robust against sub-optimally tuned hyper-parameters. MADA achieves a greater validation performance improvement over Adam compared to other popular optimizers during GPT-2 training and fine-tuning. We also propose AVGrad, a modification of AMSGrad that replaces the maximum operator with averaging, which is more suitable for hyper-gradient optimization. Finally, we provide a convergence analysis to show that parameterized interpolations of optimizers can improve their error bounds (up to constants), hinting at an advantage for meta-optimizers.

2024: Learning the Target Network in Function Space
Abstract: We focus on the task of learning the value function in the reinforcement learning (RL) setting. This task is often solved by updating a pair of online and target networks while ensuring that the parameters of these two networks are equivalent. We propose Lookahead-Replicate (LR), a new value-function approximation algorithm that is agnostic to this parameter-space equivalence. Instead, the LR algorithm is designed to maintain an equivalence between the two networks in the function space. This value-based equivalence is obtained by employing a new target-network update. We show that LR leads to a convergent behavior in learning the value function. We also present empirical results demonstrating that LR-based target-network updates significantly improve deep RL on the Atari benchmark.

2024: A Globally Convergent Inertial First-Order Optimization Method for Multidimensional Scaling
Abstract: None

2024: Krylov Cubic Regularized Newton: A Subspace Second-Order Method with Dimension-Free Convergence Rate
Abstract: Second-order optimization methods, such as cubic regularized Newton methods, are known for their rapid convergence rates; nevertheless, they become impractical in high-dimensional problems due to their substantial memory requirements and computational costs. One promising approach is to execute second-order updates within a lower-dimensional subspace, giving rise to subspace second-order methods. However, the majority of existing subspace second-order methods randomly select subspaces, consequently resulting in slower convergence rates depending on the problem's dimension $d$. In this paper, we introduce a novel subspace cubic regularized Newton method that achieves a dimension-independent global convergence rate of ${O}\left(\frac{1}{mk}+\frac{1}{k^2}\right)$ for solving convex optimization problems. Here, $m$ represents the subspace dimension, which can be significantly smaller than $d$. Instead of adopting a random subspace, our primary innovation involves performing the cubic regularized Newton update within the Krylov subspace associated with the Hessian and the gradient of the objective function. This result marks the first instance of a dimension-independent convergence rate for a subspace second-order method. Furthermore, when specific spectral conditions of the Hessian are met, our method recovers the convergence rate of a full-dimensional cubic regularized Newton method. Numerical experiments show our method converges faster than existing random subspace methods, especially for high-dimensional problems.

2024: A Fast Algorithm for Convex Composite Bi-Level Optimization
Abstract: In this paper, we study convex bi-level optimization problems where both the inner and outer levels are given as a composite convex minimization. We propose the Fast Bi-level Proximal Gradient (FBi-PG) algorithm, which can be interpreted as applying FISTA to a dynamic regularized composite objective function. The dynamic nature of the regularization parameters allows to achieve an optimal fast convergence rate of $O(1/k^{2})$ in terms of the inner objective function. This is the fastest known convergence rate under no additional restrictive assumptions. We also show that FBi-PG achieves sub-linear simultaneous rates in terms of both the inner and outer objective functions. Moreover, we show that under an H\"olderian type error bound assumption on the inner objective function, the FBi-PG algorithm converges to an optimal solution of the bi-level optimization problem. Finally, we present numerical experiments demonstrating the performances of the proposed scheme.

2023: TAIL: Task-specific Adapters for Imitation Learning with Large Pretrained Models
Abstract: The full potential of large pretrained models remains largely untapped in control domains like robotics. This is mainly because of the scarcity of data and the computational challenges associated with training or fine-tuning these large models for such applications. Prior work mainly emphasizes either effective pretraining of large models for decision-making or single-task adaptation. But real-world problems will require data-efficient, continual adaptation for new control tasks. Recognizing these constraints, we introduce TAIL (Task-specific Adapters for Imitation Learning), a framework for efficient adaptation to new control tasks. Inspired by recent advancements in parameter-efficient fine-tuning in language domains, we explore efficient fine-tuning techniques -- e.g., Bottleneck Adapters, P-Tuning, and Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) -- in TAIL to adapt large pretrained models for new tasks with limited demonstration data. Our extensive experiments in large-scale language-conditioned manipulation tasks comparing prevalent parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques and adaptation baselines suggest that TAIL with LoRA can achieve the best post-adaptation performance with only 1\% of the trainable parameters of full fine-tuning, while avoiding catastrophic forgetting and preserving adaptation plasticity in continual learning settings.

2023: A semi-Bregman proximal alternating method for a class of nonconvex problems: local and global convergence analysis
Abstract: None

2023: Nested Alternating Minimization with FISTA for Non-convex and Non-smooth Optimization Problems
Abstract: None

2023: TD Convergence: An Optimization Perspective
Abstract: We study the convergence behavior of the celebrated temporal-difference (TD) learning algorithm. By looking at the algorithm through the lens of optimization, we first argue that TD can be viewed as an iterative optimization algorithm where the function to be minimized changes per iteration. By carefully investigating the divergence displayed by TD on a classical counter example, we identify two forces that determine the convergent or divergent behavior of the algorithm. We next formalize our discovery in the linear TD setting with quadratic loss and prove that convergence of TD hinges on the interplay between these two forces. We extend this optimization perspective to prove convergence of TD in a much broader setting than just linear approximation and squared loss. Our results provide a theoretical explanation for the successful application of TD in reinforcement learning.

2023: Direct, fast and convergent solvers for the non-convex and non-smooth TDoA localization problem
Abstract: None

2023: Convex Bi-Level Optimization Problems with Non-smooth Outer Objective Function
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the Bi-Sub-Gradient (Bi-SG) method, which is a generalization of the classical sub-gradient method to the setting of convex bi-level optimization problems. This is a first-order method that is very easy to implement in the sense that it requires only a computation of the associated proximal mapping or a sub-gradient of the outer non-smooth objective function, in addition to a proximal gradient step on the inner optimization problem. We show, under very mild assumptions, that Bi-SG tackles bi-level optimization problems and achieves sub-linear rates both in terms of the inner and outer objective functions. Moreover, if the outer objective function is additionally strongly convex (still could be non-smooth), the outer rate can be improved to a linear rate. Last, we prove that the distance of the generated sequence to the set of optimal solutions of the bi-level problem converges to zero.

2023: Resetting the Optimizer in Deep RL: An Empirical Study
Abstract: We focus on the task of approximating the optimal value function in deep reinforcement learning. This iterative process is comprised of solving a sequence of optimization problems where the loss function changes per iteration. The common approach to solving this sequence of problems is to employ modern variants of the stochastic gradient descent algorithm such as Adam. These optimizers maintain their own internal parameters such as estimates of the first-order and the second-order moments of the gradient, and update them over time. Therefore, information obtained in previous iterations is used to solve the optimization problem in the current iteration. We demonstrate that this can contaminate the moment estimates because the optimization landscape can change arbitrarily from one iteration to the next one. To hedge against this negative effect, a simple idea is to reset the internal parameters of the optimizer when starting a new iteration. We empirically investigate this resetting idea by employing various optimizers in conjunction with the Rainbow algorithm. We demonstrate that this simple modification significantly improves the performance of deep RL on the Atari benchmark.

2022: From Cluster Ranking to Document Ranking
Abstract: The common approach of using clusters of similar documents for ad hoc document retrieval is to rank the clusters in response to the query; then, the cluster ranking is transformed to document ranking. We present a novel supervised approach to transform cluster ranking to document ranking. The approach allows to simultaneously utilize different clusterings and the resultant cluster rankings; this helps to improve the modeling of the document similarity space. Empirical evaluation shows that using our approach results in performance that substantially transcends the state-of-the-art in cluster-based document retrieval.

2022: Faster Projection-Free Augmented Lagrangian Methods via Weak Proximal Oracle
Abstract: This paper considers a convex composite optimization problem with affine constraints, which includes problems that take the form of minimizing a smooth convex objective function over the intersection of (simple) convex sets, or regularized with multiple (simple) functions. Motivated by high-dimensional applications in which exact projection/proximal computations are not tractable, we propose a \textit{projection-free} augmented Lagrangian-based method, in which primal updates are carried out using a \textit{weak proximal oracle} (WPO). In an earlier work, WPO was shown to be more powerful than the standard \textit{linear minimization oracle} (LMO) that underlies conditional gradient-based methods (aka Frank-Wolfe methods). Moreover, WPO is computationally tractable for many high-dimensional problems of interest, including those motivated by recovery of low-rank matrices and tensors, and optimization over polytopes which admit efficient LMOs. The main result of this paper shows that under a certain curvature assumption (which is weaker than strong convexity), our WPO-based algorithm achieves an ergodic rate of convergence of $O(1/T)$ for both the objective residual and feasibility gap. This result, to the best of our knowledge, improves upon the $O(1/\sqrt{T})$ rate for existing LMO-based projection-free methods for this class of problems. Empirical experiments on a low-rank and sparse covariance matrix estimation task and the Max Cut semidefinite relaxation demonstrate that of our method can outperform state-of-the-art LMO-based Lagrangian-based methods.

2022: Convergent Nested Alternating Minimization Algorithms for Nonconvex Optimization Problems
Abstract: We introduce a new algorithmic framework for solving nonconvex optimization problems, that is called nested alternating minimization, which aims at combining the classical alternating minimization technique with inner iterations of any optimization method. We provide a global convergence analysis of the new algorithmic framework to critical points of the problem at hand, which to the best of our knowledge, is the first of this kind for nested methods in the nonconvex setting. Central to our global convergence analysis is a new extension of classical proof techniques in the nonconvex setting that allows for errors in the conditions. The power of our framework is illustrated with some numerical experiments that show the superiority of this algorithmic framework over existing methods.

2020: Faster Lagrangian-Based Methods in Convex Optimization
Abstract: In this paper, we aim at unifying, simplifying, and improving the convergence rate analysis of Lagrangian-based methods for convex optimization problems. We first introduce the notion of nice primal algorithmic map, which plays a central role in the unification and in the simplification of the analysis of all Lagrangian-based methods. Equipped with a nice primal algorithmic map, we then introduce a versatile generic scheme, which allows for the design and analysis of Faster LAGrangian (FLAG) methods with a new provably sublinear rate of convergence expressed in terms of functions values and feasibility violation of the original (non-ergodic) generated sequence. To demonstrate the power and versatility of our approach and results, we show that all well-known iconic Lagrangian-based schemes admit a nice primal algorithmic map, and hence share the new faster rate of convergence results within their corresponding FLAG.

