Recent papers for Sidi Moshe:

2013: On cognitive processes in cognitive radio networks
Abstract: None

2012: Prediction based cognitive spectrum access
Abstract: A prediction-based spectrum access for cognitive radio (CR) is considered. In a typical scenario, CR accesses the communication channels as a secondary user (SU), under the requirement for collisions avoidance with the primary users (PU). In order to meet this requirement, CR frequently senses the communication channels and estimates their availability. Generally, sensing and transmission processes are mutually exclusive, which turns the sensing time into an overhead. Therefore, CR has a strong incentive to predict the future availability of the channels. Consequently, by sensing less, CR is able to increase the proportion of time allocated for the transmissions. We propose a novel analytical model of CR which consists of communication processes and cognitive components. The communication processes include packet arrivals, queueing and transmissions, while the cognitive components include sensing, estimation, multi-step ahead prediction of the channels' states and a component of decision-making. The prediction based policies show a significant improvement in the performance measures of throughput and delay compared to the reactive behavior.

2011: DRAFT - DO NOT CIRCULATE
Abstract: None

2011: Cross-Entropy Optimized Cognitive Radio Policies
Abstract: None

2010: Modeling and analysis of system dynamics and state estimation in cognitive radio networks
Abstract: Cognitive radio networks (CRN) are subject of a multidisciplinary research in wireless networking, digital communications, artificial intelligence, and other fields. Special emphasis is given to investigation of the CRN capability of improved RF spectrum utilization by means of dynamic spectrum access (DSA). This paper proposes a new analytic framework for modeling the adaptive behavior of CRN. In particular, a model of the CRN is developed which incorporates sensing of the electromagnetic environment, estimating states of the communication channels, making decisions based on some policy and dynamically switching the transmissions to the channels that are not currently occupied by primary users. The proposed framework is analyzed using mathematical tools of queueing theory and the performance of the CRN is evaluated. We show the impact of sensing rate and the system dynamics on the waiting times of secondary users.

2010: Splitting algorithms in channels with markovian capture
Abstract: In this paper we study the performance of tree-like splitting collision resolution algorithms in channels with markovian capture. In particular, we assume that in each slot the channel can be in one of two states -b (for “bad”) and g (for “good”). When the channel is in state b, a capture can never occur. When the channel is in state g and n nodes (n ≥ 2) are transmitting, a capture occurs with probability πn. The sequence of channel states is assumed to be a homogeneous Markov chain. We derive the throughput of a splitting tree-like multiple access algorithm for this channel. We also provide simulation results for the average delay.

2008: Jitter Buffer Analysis
Abstract: VoIP is rapidly growing and widely used real-time voice service. On the path through the packet-switched networks, the regularity of VoIP stream is impaired by routing, queuing, scheduling and serialization effects, consequently resulting in loss and delay jitter of packets. Achieving high quality real-time voice requires smoothing the delay jitter at the receiver which is generally done by means of jitter buffer mechanism. Although being an important VoIP element, the exact analysis of the jitter buffer is rather rare. In this paper we model the jitter buffer mechanism and carry out the analysis of its performance. The relations between such quantities as initial playout delay, delay jitter and loss are established. Then, these relations are used together with the voice quality evaluation methodologies MOS and E-model, to optimally choose the controlling parameters of the jitter buffer, in order to increase the perceived quality of the voice. The analytic results developed in this work are applicable for incorporation in playout algorithms to achieve better voice quality.

2007: Single Server Queueing Models for Communication Systems
Abstract: One of the most important performance measures in the analysis of data networks is the average delay required to deliver a packet from origin to destination. The packet delay will aaect the choice and performance of several network algorithms such as routing and ow control. Queueing theory is the primary methodological framework for analyzing network delay. It provides a basis for adequate delay approximations, as well as valuable qualitative results and worthwhile insights. The literature on queueing models for communication systems is abundant. In this paper we concentrate on single server queueing models for communication systems. We describe some of the more recent models that were developed for modeling the behavior of nodes of modern communication networks. These models are fundamental and provide the foundation for more elaborate models with multiple servers. We focus on the queueing and transmission delays of packets. First, we describe some classical queueing models, namely, the M=M=1, M=G=1 and G=M=1 queueing models. These models assume that all interarrival times and service times are independent. This assumption does not hold for communication systems and we describe extensions of the classical queueing models to allow for such dependency. It is demonstrated that with this dependency the delays in the buuers preceding communication links are smaller. Next, we describe completely diierent approaches for the characterization of arrival processes. These characterizations are motivated by the need to model real-time applications in high-speed communication networks where it is important to capture the burstiness of the arrival processes. Finally, we describe another performance measure, namely, the message delay. The motivation for this measure arises from the process of segmentation and reassembly of messages into packets which is natural for packet-switched networks.

2006: Network Clock Frequency Synchronization
Abstract: The emergence of network convergence emphasizes the need to support distributed synchronous servers such as TDMoIP (pseudo-wire) and 3G cellular gateways over a packet switched infrastructure. Consequently, we formalize the problem of network wide clock frequency synchronization and introduce novel and efficient algorithms to synchronize the frequency among all the clocks in the network with respect to a single frequency. The common thread of our solutions is that they take a network-wide view that accounts for all the clocks in the network and measurements taken over all links to estimate the frequency difference of each clock with respect to the reference clock. The various presented algorithms introduce different trade-offs between the accuracy and the computation complexity. While all our schemes are global, they employ simple pair-wise measurements between neighboring nodes. Consequently, all the algorithms presented in the paper, are simple, easy to implement and require a modest amount of measurement and control traffic.

2006: Parallel downloads for streaming applications - a resequencing analysis
Abstract: None

2006: One-way delay estimation using network-wide measurements
Abstract: We present a novel approach for the estimation of one-way delays between network nodes without any time synchronization in the network. It is based on conducting multiple and simple one-way measurements among pairs of nodes, and estimating the one-way delays by optimizing the value of a global objective function that is affected by the overall network topology and not just by individual measurements. We examine two objective functions. The first intuitive choice is the least square error (LSE). Using a novel concept of delay-induced link probabilities, we develop a second objective function that is based on the maximum-entropy (ME) principle. Extensive numerical experiments show that both functions considerably outperform the common method of halving the round-trip delays. They also show that ME outperforms the commonly used LSE.

2006: Design and analysis of a class-aware recursive loop scheduler for class-based scheduling
Abstract: None

2006: Energy efficiency of collision resolution protocols
Abstract: None

2006: Network classless time protocol based on clock offset optimization
Abstract: Time synchronization is critical in distributed environments. A variety of network protocols, middleware and business applications rely on proper time synchronization across the computational infrastructure and depend on the clock accuracy. The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is the current widely accepted standard for synchronizing clocks over the Internet. NTP uses a hierarchical scheme in order to synchronize the clocks in the network. In this paper we present a novel non-hierarchical peer-to-peer approach for time synchronization termed CTP-Classless Time Protocol. This approach exploits convex optimization theory in order to evaluate the impact of each clock offset on the overall objective function. We define the clock offset problem as an optimization problem and derive its optimal solution. Based on the solution we develop a distributed protocol that can be implemented over a communication network, prove its convergence to the optimal clock offsets and show its properties. For compatibility, CTP may use the packet format and number of measurements used by NTP. We also present methodology and numerical results for evaluating and comparing the accuracy of time synchronization schemes. We show that the CTP outperforms hierarchical schemes such as NTP in the sense of clock accuracy with respect to a universal clock

2005: The expected uncertainty of range-free localization protocols in sensor networks
Abstract: None

2004: Performance Analysis of a Recursive Cyclic Scheduler for Class-based Scheduling
Abstract: In this paper, we consider the problem of determining a cyclic (or loop) sc heduler that allocates slots to flows as periodically as possible. We use the second moment of the inter-allocation distance for each flow as its periodicity metric. We establish the optimality of a Weighted-Round Robin with spreading ( WRR-sp2) scheduler for a two-flow scenario. We consider a class-based scheduling scenario where flows are grou ped according to their relative bandwidth demands. We propose aC-class scheduler that recursively performs inter-class scheduling u si the corresponding C-1 class scheduler, prior to intra-class scheduling. Optimality is achieved for C = 2 with theWRR-sp2 as the inter-class scheduler. Through numerical results, we show that the recursive scheduler ac hieves the best periodicity performance at the expense of intra-class fairness, which is desirable for class-based scheduling. T hereby, we expose a trade-off between periodicity and fairness performance in the design of loop schedulers. I. I NTRODUCTION Consider a system that comprises an indivisible resource (t ime-slot) andn clients (or flows) share it by means of time multiplexing: in any given time, a different flow may use the r esource. Many applications require that flows are served at s ome prescribed rate, and this rate should be as smooth as possibl e even in small time windows. The allocation of time slots to fl ows is governed by a scheduling algorithm. In other words, given a set of requested shares, {x}i=1, the goal of the scheduling algorithm is to produce an assignment of time slots (or a sche dule) to flows, while trying to optimize two different measur es: (a) Fairness: a schedule is said to have good fairness if the fraction of ti me slots allocated to each flow is close to its requested share; (b) Smoothness : a schedule is said to have good smoothness if the time slots a l cated to each flow are as evenly spaced as possible. The best possible schedule is one where the allocated shares are exactly the requested shares (perfect fairness) and whe re each flow is scheduled exactly every p time slots (perfectly-periodic schedule). Although sched ul s that offer fairness while neglecting smoothness are available [1], it is NP-complete to decide whether a set of requests admits a perfectly-perio dic schedule [2]. A. Perfectly Periodic Scheduling Two approaches to the scheduling problem are considered in t he literature. The first approach insists on maintaining str ict smoothness while relaxing the fairness requirement. In [3] (and references therein), each flow i requests that it be scheduled exactly everyτ (i) time slots, and the goal is to determine a scheduler that opti mizes the fairness measure under the perfect periodicity constraint. Strict smoothness requirements i mply that the periods allocated to some flows will not match th eir requests. A suitable metric to measure the deviation from pe rfect fairness for each flow is the fairness ratio, given by th e ratio of its requested period and its granted period. There exist s chedulers [4] that guarantee that the average fairness rati o (where the weight of each flow is its requested bandwidth) is close to optimal. The maximum measure is studied in [5], where the quality of the schedule is the worst-case fairness ratio ove r all flows. B. Non-Periodic Scheduling An alternative approach is to allow different gaps between c o secutive allocations to a flow, while insisting on perfect fairness. This approach was considered in [6] (and referenc s therein), where the authors considered an online variant of the resource sharing problem. Given that the arrival process of packets to each flow is independent and identically distribu ted (i.i.d), the goal is to determine a scheduler that optimizes some performance criteria under the perfect fairness const rai t. In [7], the author deduced that for throughput optimality fo r n=2 and unit buffer size per queue, the schedule must be open-loop(or de-centralized) andconflict-free. This work was extended in [8] to the case of n>2. It was also verified that an optimal schedule always exists and is stationary and cyclic (or loop), i.e., there exists an N such that for allt, the flow allocated to slotτ is also allocated to slot τ+N.

2004: Two priority buffered multistage interconnection networks
Abstract: This paper presents a novel architecture of internally two priority buffered multistage interconnection network (MIN). First, we compare by simulation the new architecture against a single priority MIN and demonstrate up to N times higher high-priority throughput in a hot spot situation, when N is the number of inputs. In addition, under uniform traffic assumption we show an increase in the low priority throughput, without any change in the high priority throughput. Moreover, while in the single priority system the high priority delay and its standard deviation are increased when low priority traffic is present, it is kept constant in the dual priority system. Finally, we introduce a new approach of long Markovian memory performance model to better capture the packet dependency in a single priority MIN under uniform traffic and extend this model for a dual priority MIN. Model results are shown to be very accurate.

2004: The Expected Uncertainty of Range Free Localization Protocols in Sensor Networks
Abstract: None

2003: Multiple Access Schemes Basic Model Connict-free Schemes Fixed-assignment Comparing the Throughput Delay Characteristics of Fdma and Tdma We Note That Dynamic-assignment Contention-based Schemes
Abstract: 1 Communication channels are major components of computer communication networks. They provide the physical mediums over which signals, representing data, are transmitted from one node of the network to another node. Communication channels can be classiied into two main categories: point-to-point channels and shared channels. Typically, the backbone of wide area networks (WANs) consists of point-to-point channels, while local area networks (LANs) use shared channels. Point-to-point channels are dedicated to connect a pair of nodes of the network. They are usually used in xed topology networks and their cost depends on many parameters such as distance, bandwidth etc. An important characteristic of these channels is that nodes do not interfere with each other, namely, transmissions between a pair of nodes has no eeect on the transmissions between another pair of nodes, even if a node is common to the two pairs. Shared channels are used when point-to-point channels are not economical, not available, or when dynamic topologies are preferable. In a shared channel, called also a broadcast channel, several nodes can potentially transmit and/or receive messages at the same time. Shared channels appear naturally in radio networks, satellite networks and some local area networks (e.g., Ethernet). Their deployment is usually easier than point-to-point channels. An important characteristic of shared channels is that transmissions of diierent nodes interfere each other, namely, one transmission coinciding in time with another may cause none of them to be received. This means that the success of a transmission between a pair of nodes is no longer independent of other transmissions. To have successful transmissions in shared channels, interference must be avoided or at least controlled. The channel allocation among the competing nodes is critical for proper operation of the network. This article focuses on access schemes to such channels known as Multiple Access Schemes. These schemes are nothing but channel allocation rules that determine who goes next on the channel aiming at some desirable network performance characteristics. Multiple access schemes belong to a sublayer of the data link layer called the Medium Access Control (MAC) which is especially important in LANs. Multiple access schemes are natural not only in communication systems but also in many other systems such as computer systems, storage facilities or servers of any kind, where resources are shared by a number of nodes. In this article we mainly address shared communication channels. 2 One way to classify multiple access schemes is …

2003: A Proposed Methodology to Improve the Performance of Agent-based Applications through the Identification of the Optimum Visited Sequence
Abstract: Mobile agents have received much attention recently as an effective solution in building a wide range of distributed applications. Despite the research activities carried out, a number of issues concerning mainly the performance of agent-based applications are still open. In this paper, we propose a methodology for improving the performance of a Network Management agent-based application, by controlling the visited sequence of the mobile agents to the target machines. The optimisation of the visited sequence is based on the latency of the underlying network. A management task such as the configuration of a Differentiated Services (DiffServ) Domain is used to test and evaluate the proposed methodology. In particular, it is demonstrated that when a mobile agent should act on a set of targets, the time required to perform a task is decreased if the visited sequence is decided based on the network latency.

