Recent papers for Solovey Kiril:

2025: Effective Sampling for Robot Motion Planning Through the Lens of Lattices
Abstract: Sampling-based methods for motion planning, which capture the structure of the robot's free space via (typically random) sampling, have gained popularity due to their scalability, simplicity, and for offering global guarantees, such as probabilistic completeness and asymptotic optimality. Unfortunately, the practicality of those guarantees remains limited as they do not provide insights into the behavior of motion planners for a finite number of samples (i.e., a finite running time). In this work, we harness lattice theory and the concept of $(\delta,\epsilon)$-completeness by Tsao et al. (2020) to construct deterministic sample sets that endow their planners with strong finite-time guarantees while minimizing running time. In particular, we introduce a highly-efficient deterministic sampling approach based on the $A_d^*$ lattice, which is the best-known geometric covering in dimensions $\leq 21$. Using our new sampling approach, we obtain at least an order-of-magnitude speedup over existing deterministic and uniform random sampling methods for complex motion-planning problems. Overall, our work provides deep mathematical insights while advancing the practical applicability of sampling-based motion planning.

2025: From Configuration-Space Clearance to Feature-Space Margin: Sample Complexity in Learning-Based Collision Detection
Abstract: Motion planning is a central challenge in robotics, with learning-based approaches gaining significant attention in recent years. Our work focuses on a specific aspect of these approaches: using machine-learning techniques, particularly Support Vector Machines (SVM), to evaluate whether robot configurations are collision free, an operation termed ``collision detection''. Despite the growing popularity of these methods, there is a lack of theory supporting their efficiency and prediction accuracy. This is in stark contrast to the rich theoretical results of machine-learning methods in general and of SVMs in particular. Our work bridges this gap by analyzing the sample complexity of an SVM classifier for learning-based collision detection in motion planning. We bound the number of samples needed to achieve a specified accuracy at a given confidence level. This result is stated in terms relevant to robot motion-planning such as the system's clearance. Building on these theoretical results, we propose a collision-detection algorithm that can also provide statistical guarantees on the algorithm's error in classifying robot configurations as collision-free or not.

2024: Impossibility of Self-Organized Aggregation without Computation
Abstract: In their seminal work, Gauci et al. (2014) studied the fundamental task of aggregation, wherein multiple robots need to gather without an a priori agreed-upon meeting location, using minimal hardware. That paper considered differential-drive robots that are memoryless and unable to compute. Moreover, the robots cannot communicate with one another and are only equipped with a simple sensor that determines whether another robot is directly in front of them. Despite those severe limitations, Gauci et al. introduced a controller and proved mathematically that it aggregates a system of two robots for any initial state. Unfortunately, for larger systems, the same controller aggregates empirically in many cases but not all. Thus, the question of whether a controller exists that aggregates for any number of robots remains open. In this paper, we show that no such controller exists by investigating the geometric structure of controllers. In addition, we disprove the aggregation proof of the paper above for two robots and present an alternative controller alongside a simple and rigorous aggregation proof.

2023: Near-Optimal Multi-Robot Motion Planning with Finite Sampling
Abstract: An underlying structure in several sampling-based methods for continuous multirobot motion planning (MRMP) is the tensor roadmap, which emerges from combining multiple probabilistic roadmap (PRM) graphs constructed for the individual robots via a tensor product. We study the conditions under which the tensor roadmap encodes a near-optimal solution for MRMP—satisfying these conditions implies near optimality for a variety of popular planners, including dRRT*, and the discrete methods M* and conflict-based search, when applied to the continuous domain. We develop the first finite-sample analysis of this kind, which specifies the number of samples, their deterministic distribution, and magnitude of the connection radii that should be used by each individual PRM graph, to guarantee near-optimality using the tensor roadmap. This significantly improves upon a previous asymptotic analysis, wherein the number of samples tends to infinity. Our new finite sample-size analysis supports guaranteed high-quality solutions in practice within finite time. To achieve our new result, we first develop a sampling scheme, which we call the staggered grid, for finite-sample motion planning for individual robots, which requires significantly fewer samples than previous work. We then extend it to the much more involved MRMP setting, which requires to account for interactions among multiple robots. Finally, we report on a few experiments that serve as a verification of our theoretical findings and raise interesting questions for further investigation.

2023: Inspection planning under execution uncertainty
Abstract: Autonomous inspection tasks necessitate path-planning algorithms to efficiently gather observations from points of interest (POI). However, localization errors commonly encountered in urban environments can introduce execution uncertainty, posing challenges to successfully completing such tasks. Unfortunately, existing algorithms for inspection planning do not explicitly account for execution uncertainty, which can hinder their performance. To bridge this gap, we present IRIS-under uncertainty (IRIS-U^2), the first inspection-planning algorithm that offers statistical guarantees regarding coverage, path length, and collision probability. Our approach builds upon IRIS -- our framework for deterministic inspection planning, which is highly efficient and provably asymptotically-optimal. The extension to the much more involved uncertain setting is achieved by a refined search procedure that estimates POI coverage probabilities using Monte Carlo (MC) sampling. The efficacy of IRIS-U^2 is demonstrated through a case study focusing on structural inspections of bridges. Our approach exhibits improved expected coverage, reduced collision probability, and yields increasingly precise statistical guarantees as the number of MC samples grows. Furthermore, we demonstrate the potential advantages of computing bounded sub-optimal solutions to reduce computation time while maintaining statistical guarantees.

2023: Corrections to "Probabilistic Completeness of RRT for Geometric and Kinodynamic Planning With Forward Propagation"
Abstract: None

2023: Terraforming - Environment Manipulation during Disruptions for Multi-Agent Pickup and Delivery
Abstract: In automated warehouses, teams of mobile robots fulfill the packaging process by transferring inventory pods to designated workstations while navigating narrow aisles formed by tightly packed pods. This problem is typically modeled as a Multi-Agent Pickup and Delivery (MAPD) problem, which is then solved by repeatedly planning collision-free paths for agents on a fixed graph, as in the Rolling-Horizon Collision Resolution (RHCR) algorithm. However, existing approaches make the limiting assumption that agents are only allowed to move pods that correspond to their current task, while considering the other pods as stationary obstacles (even though all pods are movable). This behavior can result in unnecessarily long paths which could otherwise be avoided by opening additional corridors via pod manipulation. To this end, we explore the implications of allowing agents the flexibility of dynamically relocating pods. We call this new challenging problem Terraforming MAPD (tMAPD) and develop an RHCR-based approach to tackle it. As the extra flexibility of terraforming comes at a significant computational cost, we utilize this capability judiciously by identifying situations where it could make a significant impact on the solution quality. In particular, we invoke terraforming in response to disruptions that often occur in automated warehouses, e.g., when an item is dropped from a pod or when agents malfunction. Empirically, using our approach for tMAPD, where disruptions are modeled via a stochastic process, we improve throughput by over 10%, reduce the maximum service time (the difference between the drop-off time and the pickup time of a pod) by more than 50%, without drastically increasing the runtime, compared to the MAPD setting.

2023: Toward certifiable optimal motion planning for medical steerable needles
Abstract: Medical steerable needles can follow 3D curvilinear trajectories to avoid anatomical obstacles and reach clinically significant targets inside the human body. Automating steerable needle procedures can enable physicians and patients to harness the full potential of steerable needles by maximally leveraging their steerability to safely and accurately reach targets for medical procedures such as biopsies. For the automation of medical procedures to be clinically accepted, it is critical from a patient care, safety, and regulatory perspective to certify the correctness and effectiveness of the planning algorithms involved in procedure automation. In this paper, we take an important step toward creating a certifiable optimal planner for steerable needles. We present an efficient, resolution-complete motion planner for steerable needles based on a novel adaptation of multi-resolution planning. This is the first motion planner for steerable needles that guarantees to compute in finite time an obstacle-avoiding plan (or notify the user that no such plan exists), under clinically appropriate assumptions. Based on this planner, we then develop the first resolution-optimal motion planner for steerable needles that further provides theoretical guarantees on the quality of the computed motion plan, that is, global optimality, in finite time. Compared to state-of-the-art steerable needle motion planners, we demonstrate with clinically realistic simulations that our planners not only provide theoretical guarantees but also have higher success rates, have lower computation times, and result in higher quality plans.

2022: Robust-RRT: Probabilistically-Complete Motion Planning for Uncertain Nonlinear Systems
Abstract: Robust motion planning entails computing a global motion plan that is safe under all possible uncertainty realizations, be it in the system dynamics, the robot's initial position, or with respect to external disturbances. Current approaches for robust motion planning either lack theoretical guarantees, or make restrictive assumptions on the system dynamics and uncertainty distributions. In this paper, we address these limitations by proposing the robust rapidly-exploring random-tree (Robust-RRT) algorithm, which integrates forward reachability analysis directly into sampling-based control trajectory synthesis. We prove that Robust-RRT is probabilistically complete (PC) for nonlinear Lipschitz continuous dynamical systems with bounded uncertainty. In other words, Robust-RRT eventually finds a robust motion plan that is feasible under all possible uncertainty realizations assuming such a plan exists. Our analysis applies even to unstable systems that admit only short-horizon feasible plans; this is because we explicitly consider the time evolution of reachable sets along control trajectories. Thanks to the explicit consideration of time dependency in our analysis, PC applies to unstabilizable systems. To the best of our knowledge, this is the most general PC proof for robust sampling-based motion planning, in terms of the types of uncertainties and dynamical systems it can handle. Considering that an exact computation of reachable sets can be computationally expensive for some dynamical systems, we incorporate sampling-based reachability analysis into Robust-RRT and demonstrate our robust planner on nonlinear, underactuated, and hybrid systems.

2022: Leveraging Experience in Lifelong Multi-Agent Pathfinding
Abstract: In Lifelong Multi-Agent Path Finding (L-MAPF) a team of agents performs a stream of tasks consisting of multiple locations to be visited by the agents on a shared graph while avoiding collisions with one another. L-MAPF is typically tackled by partitioning it into multiple consecutive, and hence similar, "one-shot" MAPF queries, as in the Rolling-Horizon Collision Resolution (RHCR) algorithm. Therefore, a solution to one query informs the next query, which leads to similarity with respect to the agents' start and goal positions, and how collisions need to be resolved from one query to the next. Thus, experience from solving one MAPF query can potentially be used to speedup solving the next one. Despite this intuition, current L-MAPF planners solve consecutive MAPF queries from scratch. In this paper, we introduce a new RHCR-inspired approach called exRHCR, which exploits experience in its constituent MAPF queries. In particular, exRHCR employs an extension of Priority-Based Search (PBS), a state-of-the-art MAPF solver. The extension, which we call exPBS, allows to warm-start the search with the priorities between agents used by PBS in the previous MAPF instances. We demonstrate empirically that exRHCR solves L-MAPF instances up to 39% faster than RHCR, and has the potential to increase system throughput for given task streams by increasing the number of agents a planner can cope with for a given time budget.

2021: Fast, High-Quality Two-Arm Rearrangement in Synchronous, Monotone Tabletop Setups
Abstract: Rearranging objects on a planar surface arises in a variety of robotic applications, such as product packaging. Using two arms can improve efficiency but introduces new computational challenges. This article studies the problem structure of object rearrangement using two arms in synchronous, monotone tabletop setups and develops an optimal mixed-integer model. It then describes an efficient and scalable algorithm, which first minimizes the cost of object transfers and then moves between objects. This is motivated by the fact that, asymptotically, object transfers dominate the cost of solutions. Moreover, a lazy strategy minimizes the number of motion planning calls and results in significant speedups. Theoretical arguments support the benefits of using two arms and indicate that synchronous execution, in which the two arms perform together either transfers or moves, introduces only a small overhead. Experiments support these claims and show that the scalable method can quickly compute solutions close to the optimal for the considered setup. Note to Practitioners—Monotone tabletop rearrangement challenges arise in a variety of automation scenarios, including product sorting or packing. Performing this task with two robotic manipulators introduces the overhead of coordinating them in the shared workspace, as well as an increase in the size of the underling search space. The objective of this work is to study the feasibility of such dual-arm solutions, providing both theoretical bounds, as well as a fast, and approximate solution. The approach leverages an effective algorithmic decomposition of the problem so as to take advantage of efficient motion planners and mixed-integer linear programming solvers. The proposed solution has been evaluated in settings that include delta robots as well as seven-degree-of-freedom (DOF) manipulators. Interesting extensions of this work correspond to studying the case of additional arms, nonmonotone, and general manipulation scenarios.

2021: Resolution-Optimal Motion Planning for Steerable Needles
Abstract: Medical steerable needles can follow 3D curvilinear trajectories inside body tissue, enabling them to move around critical anatomical structures and precisely reach clinically significant targets in a minimally invasive way. Automating needle steering, with motion planning as a key component, has the potential to maximize the accuracy, precision, speed, and safety of steerable needle procedures. In this paper, we introduce the first resolution-optimal motion planner for steerable needles that offers excellent practical performance in terms of runtime while simultaneously providing strong theoretical guarantees on completeness and the global optimality of the motion plan in finite time. Compared to state-of-the-art steerable needle motion planners, simulation experiments on realistic scenarios of lung biopsy demonstrate that our proposed planner is faster in generating higher-quality plans while incorporating clinically relevant cost functions. This indicates that the theoretical guarantees of the proposed planner have a practical impact on the motion plan quality, which is valuable for computing motion plans that minimize patient trauma.

2021: On Local Computation for Network-Structured Convex Optimization in Multiagent Systems
Abstract: A number of prototypical optimization problems in multiagent systems (e.g., task allocation and network load-sharing) exhibit a highly local structure, that is, each agent's decision variables are only directly coupled to few other agent's variables through the objective function or the constraints. In this article, we develop a rigorous notion of “locality” that quantifies the degree to which agents can compute their portion of the global solution of such a distributed optimization problem based solely on information in their local neighborhood. We build upon the results of Rebeschini and Tatikonda to develop a more general theory of locality that fully captures the importance of problem data to individual solution components, as opposed to a theory that only captures response to perturbations. This analysis provides a theoretical basis for a rather simple algorithm in which agents individually solve a truncated subproblem of the global problem, where the size of the subproblem used depends on the locality of the problem, and the desired accuracy. Numerical results show that the proposed theoretical bounds are remarkably tight for well-conditioned problems.

2021: Coordinated Multi-Agent Pathfinding for Drones and Trucks over Road Networks
Abstract: We address the problem of routing a team of drones and trucks over large-scale urban road networks. To conserve their limited flight energy, drones can use trucks as temporary modes of transit en route to their own destinations. Such coordination can yield significant savings in total vehicle distance traveled, i.e., truck travel distance and drone flight distance, compared to operating drones and trucks independently. But it comes at the potentially prohibitive computational cost of deciding which trucks and drones should coordinate and when and where it is most beneficial to do so. We tackle this fundamental trade-off by decoupling our overall intractable problem into tractable sub-problems that we solve stage-wise. The first stage solves only for trucks, by computing paths that make them more likely to be useful transit options for drones. The second stage solves only for drones, by routing them over a composite of the road network and the transit network defined by truck paths from the first stage. We design a comprehensive algorithmic framework that frames each stage as a multi-agent path-finding problem and implement two distinct methods for solving them. We evaluate our approach on extensive simulations with up to $100$ agents on the real-world Manhattan road network containing nearly $4500$ vertices and $10000$ edges. Our framework saves on more than $50\%$ of vehicle distance traveled compared to independently solving for trucks and drones, and computes solutions for all settings within $5$ minutes on commodity hardware.

2021: Balancing fairness and efficiency in traffic routing via interpolated traffic assignment
Abstract: None

2021: When Efficiency Meets Equity in Congestion Pricing and Revenue Refunding Schemes
Abstract: Congestion pricing has long been hailed as a means to mitigate traffic congestion; however, its practical adoption has been limited due to the resulting social inequity issue, e.g., low-income users are priced out off certain roads. This issue has spurred interest in the design of equitable mechanisms that aim to refund the collected toll revenues as lump-sum transfers to users. Although revenue refunding has been extensively studied for over three decades, there has been no thorough characterization of how such schemes can be designed to simultaneously achieve system efficiency and equity objectives. In this article, we bridge this gap through the study of congestion pricing and revenue refunding (CPRR) schemes in nonatomic congestion games. We first develop CPRR schemes, which, in comparison to the untolled case, simultaneously increase system efficiency without worsening wealth inequality, while being user-favorable: irrespective of their initial wealth or values of time (which may differ across users), users would experience a lower travel cost after the implementation of the proposed scheme. We then characterize the set of optimal user-favorable CPRR schemes that simultaneously maximize system efficiency and minimize wealth inequality. Finally, we provide a concrete methodology for computing optimal CPRR schemes and also highlight additional equilibrium properties of these schemes under different models of user behavior. Overall, our work demonstrates that through appropriate refunding policies, we can design user-favorable CPRR schemes that maximize system efficiency while reducing wealth inequality.

2020: Complexity of Planning
Abstract: None

2020: Analysis of the Efficiency of a Section of Longitudinal Turning Machines with Numerical Control at the Enterprise of the Military-Industrial Complex
Abstract: None

2020: On Local Computation for Optimization in Multi-Agent Systems
Abstract: A number of prototypical optimization problems in multi-agent systems (e.g., task allocation and network load-sharing) exhibit a highly local structure: that is, each agent's decision variables are only directly coupled to few other agent's variables through the objective function or the constraints. Nevertheless, existing algorithms for distributed optimization generally do not exploit the locality structure of the problem, requiring all agents to compute or exchange the full set of decision variables. In this paper, we develop a rigorous notion of "locality" that quantifies the degree to which agents can compute their portion of the global solution based solely on information in their local neighborhood. This notion provides a theoretical basis for a rather simple algorithm in which agents individually solve a truncated sub-problem of the global problem, where the size of the sub-problem used depends on the locality of the problem, and the desired accuracy. Numerical results show that the proposed theoretical bounds are remarkably tight for well-conditioned problems.

2020: Near-Optimal Multi-Robot Motion Planning with Finite Sampling
Abstract: An underlying structure in several sampling-based methods for continuous multi-robot motion planning (MRMP) is the tensor roadmap (PR), which emerges from combining multiple PRM graphs constructed for the individual robots via a tensor product. We study the conditions under which the TR encodes a near-optimal solution for MRMP—satisfying these conditions implies near optimality for a variety of popular planners, including dRRT*, and the discrete methods M* and CBS when applied to the continuous domain. We develop the first finite-sample analysis of this kind, which specifies the number of samples, their deterministic distribution, and magnitude of the connection radii that should be used by each individual PRM graph, to guarantee near-optimality using the TR. This significantly improves upon a previous asymptotic analysis, wherein the number of samples tends to infinity. Our new finite sample-size analysis supports guaranteed high- quality solutions in practice within finite time. To achieve our new result, we first develop a sampling scheme, which we call the staggered grid, for finite-sample motion planning for individual robots, which requires significantly less samples than previous work. We then extend it to the much more involved MRMP setting which requires to account for interactions among multiple robots. Finally, we report on a few experiments that serve as a verification of our theoretical findings and raise interesting questions for further investigation.

