Recent papers for Steinberg Yossef:

2024: The State-Dependent Channel with a Rate-Limited Cribbing Helper
Abstract: The capacity of a memoryless state-dependent chan-nel is derived for a setting in which the encoder is provided with rate-limited assistance from a cribbing helper that observes the state sequence causally and the past channel inputs strictly-causally. Said cribbing may increase capacity but not to the level achievable by a message-cognizant helper.

2024: Relay Channels With Unreliable Helpers
Abstract: The relay channel with unreliable helper is introduced and studied. The model is that of a classical relay channel where the input from the relay to the channel has an extra primitive link whose presence is not assured a priori. The extra link represents a helper who may decide not to cooperate in transmission. The goal is to devise robust coding schemes that exploit all the relay links when they are present, but can also operate, possibly at reduced rates, when the extra primitive link (helper) is absent. The capacity region of this class of problems is defined, and fully characterized for degraded relay channels. The degraded Gaussian relay channel with unreliable relay link is solved.

2023: Relay Channels with Unreliable Helpers
Abstract: The relay channel with unreliable helper is introduced an studied. The model is that of a classical relay channel where the input from the relay to the channel has an extra primitive link whose presence is not assured a priori. The extra link represents a helper who may decide not to cooperate in transmission. The goal is to devise robust coding schemes that exploit all the relay links when they are present, but can also operate, possibly at reduced rates, when the extra primitive link (helper) is absent. The capacity region of this class of problems is defined, and fully characterized for degraded relay channels.

2021: The Broadcast Channel With Degraded Message Sets and Unreliable Conference
Abstract: It has long been observed that cooperation between users in a communication network can improve its performance. Unfortunately, in practical ad-hoc networks, cooperation links can be unreliable, and in many cases part of the users in the system cannot be updated about their availability. In such a case we need robust coding schemes that exploit the cooperation links if they are present, but can still operate if cooperation is not possible. In this work we study the general broadcast channel with degraded message sets and cooperation link that may be absent, and derive its capacity region under such uncertainty conditions. A generalization of this model is studied, where the cooperation link capacity is one of $k$ possible values, and its capacity region is derived. We examine the situation where the cooperation link capacity is random and suggest the following performance criterion: maximize the average rate of one user, subject to a constraint on the rate of the other user and the requirement that the system will operate in any realization of the (random) cooperation link. As examples to illustrate our results, the Gaussian broadcast channel is extensively examined, and its capacity is derived for the various cooperation models and assumptions suggested throughout.

2020: Arbitrarily Varying Broadcast Channel with Uncertain Cooperation
Abstract: None

2020: The Arbitrarily Varying Broadcast Channel With Causal Side Information at the Encoder
Abstract: In this paper, we study the arbitrarily varying broadcast channel (AVBC) when the state information is available at the transmitter in a causal manner. We establish the inner and outer bounds on both the random code capacity region and the deterministic code capacity region with degraded message sets. The capacity region is then determined for a class of channels satisfying a condition on the mutual information between the strategy variables and the channel outputs. As an example, we consider the arbitrarily varying binary symmetric broadcast channel. We show the cases where the condition holds and, hence, the capacity region is determined and other cases where there is a gap between the bounds. This gap shows that the minimax theorem does not hold for rate regions.

2019: The Water Filling Game
Abstract: We consider the Gaussian arbitrarily varying product channel (GAVPC), and the arbitrarily varying channel (AVC) with colored Gaussian noise. The random code capacity is obtained by solving an optimization min-max problem, which is interpreted as a two-player zero-sum game, played by the user and the jammer, where their strategies are the power allocations. The optimal power allocations are given by a "double" water filling solution, where the jammer performs water filling first, attempting to whiten the overall noise as much as possible, and then the user performs water filling taking into account the total interference power, which is contributed by both the channel noise and the jamming signal. As in the case of the standard Gaussian AVC, the deterministic code capacity is discontinuous in the input constraint, and depends on which of the input or state constraint is higher. As opposed to Shannon's classic water filling solution, it is observed that deterministic coding using independent codes is suboptimal for the GAVPC. We further extend our results to the AVC with colored Gaussian noise, where double water filling is performed in the frequency domain.

2019: The Arbitrarily Varying Channel Under Constraints With Side Information at the Encoder
Abstract: We study the arbitrarily varying channel (AVC) with input and state constraints, when the encoder has state information in a causal or noncausal manner. For the causal state information setting, we develop lower and upper bounds on the random code capacity. A lower bound on the deterministic code capacity is established in the case of a message-averaged input constraint. In the setting where a state constraint is imposed on the jammer, while the user is under no constraints, the random code bounds coincide, and the random code capacity is determined. Furthermore, for this scenario, a generalized non-symmetrizability condition is stated, under which the deterministic code capacity coincides with the random code capacity. For the noncausal state information setting, we determine the random code capacity of the AVC under input and state constraints. In addition, a condition on the channel is stated, under which the deterministic code capacity coincides with the random code capacity.

2019: The Capacity Region of the Arbitrarily Varying MAC: With and Without Constraints
Abstract: We determine both the random code capacity region and the deterministic code capacity region of the arbitrarily varying multiple access channel (AVMAC) under input and state constraints. For the AVMAC without constraints, the characterization due to Ahlswede and Cai is complete except for two cases, pointed out in the literature as an open problem. The missing piece is obtained as a special case of our results.

2019: The Arbitrarily Varying Channel With Colored Gaussian Noise
Abstract: We address the arbitrarily varying channel (AVC) with colored Gaussian noise. The work consists of three parts. First, we study the general discrete AVC with fixed parameters, a model that combines the AVC and the time-varying channel. We determine both the deterministic code capacity and the random code capacity. Super-additivity is demonstrated, showing that the deterministic code capacity can be strictly larger than the weighted sum of the parametric capacities. In the second part, we consider the arbitrarily varying Gaussian product channel (AVGPC). Hughes and Narayan characterized the random code capacity through min-max optimization leading to a “double” water filling solution. As in the case of the standard Gaussian AVC, the deterministic code capacity is discontinuous in the input constraint, and depends on which of the input or state constraint is higher. As opposed to Shannon’s classic water filling solution, it is observed that deterministic coding using independent scalar codes is suboptimal for the AVGPC. Finally, we establish the capacity of the AVC with colored Gaussian noise, where double water filling is performed in the frequency domain. The analysis relies on our preceding results, on the AVC with fixed parameters and the AVGPC.

2018: The Arbitrarily Varying Gaussian Relay Channel with Sender Frequency Division
Abstract: We consider the arbitrarily varying Gaussian relay channel with sender frequency division. We determine the random code capacity, and establish lower and upper bounds on the deterministic code capacity. It is observed that when the channel input is subject to a low power limit, the deterministic code capacity may be strictly lower than the random code capacity, and the gap vanishes as the input becomes less constrained. A second model addressed in this paper is the general case of primitive arbitrarily varying relay channels. We develop lower and upper bounds on the random code capacity, and give conditions under which the deterministic code capacity coincides with the random code capacity, and conditions under which it is lower. Then, we establish the capacity of the primitive counterpart of the arbitrarily varying Gaussian relay channel with sender frequency division. In this case, the deterministic and random code capacities are the same.

2018: The Arbitrarily Varying Relay Channel †
Abstract: We study the arbitrarily varying relay channel, and establish the cutset bound, decode-forward bound and partial decode-forward bound on the random code capacity. We further determine the random code capacity for special cases. Then, we consider deterministic coding schemes, and derive the deterministic code capacity, under certain conditions.

2017: The arbitrarily varying channel under constraints with causal side information at the encoder
Abstract: We study the arbitrarily varying channel (AVC) with input and state constraints, when the encoder has state information in a causal manner. Lower and upper bounds on the random code capacity are developed. A lower bound on the deterministic code capacity is established in the case of a message-averaged input constraint. In the setting where a state constraint is imposed on the jammer, while the user is under no constraints, the random code bounds coincide, and the random code capacity is determined. Furthermore, for this scenario, a generalized non-symmetrizability condition is stated, under which the deterministic code capacity coincides with the random code capacity.

2017: The arbitrarily varying degraded broadcast channel with causal side information at the encoder
Abstract: In this work, we study the arbitrarily varying degraded broadcast channel (AVDBC), when state information is available at the transmitter in a causal manner. We establish inner and outer bounds on both the random code capacity region and the deterministic code capacity region. The capacity region is then determined for a class of channels satisfying a condition on the mutual informations between the strategy variables and the channel outputs. As an example, we show that the condition holds for the arbitrarily varying binary symmetric broadcast channel, and we find the corresponding capacity region.

2017: A Study on Arbitrarily Varying Channels with Causal Side Information at the Encoder
Abstract: In this work, we study two models of arbitrarily varying channels, when causal side information is available at the encoder in a causal manner. First, we study the arbitrarily varying channel (AVC) with input and state constraints, when the encoder has state information in a causal manner. Lower and upper bounds on the random code capacity are developed. A lower bound on the deterministic code capacity is established in the case of a message-averaged input constraint. In the setting where a state constraint is imposed on the jammer, while the user is under no constraints, the random code bounds coincide, and the random code capacity is determined. Furthermore, for this scenario, a generalized non-symmetrizability condition is stated, under which the deterministic code capacity coincides with the random code capacity. 
A second model considered in our work is the arbitrarily varying degraded broadcast channel with causal side information at the encoder (without constraints). We establish inner and outer bounds on both the random code capacity region and the deterministic code capacity region. The capacity region is then determined for a class of channels satisfying a condition on the mutual informations between the strategy variables and the channel outputs. As an example, we show that the condition holds for the arbitrarily varying binary symmetric broadcast channel, and we find the corresponding capacity region.

2017: The broadcast channel with degraded message sets and unreliable conference
Abstract: As demonstrated in many recent studies, cooperation between users can greatly improve the performance of communication systems. Most of the works in the literature present models where all the users are aware of the resources available for cooperation. However, the scenario where cooperation links are sometimes unavailable or that some users cannot be updated whether the cooperation links are present or not, is more realistic in today's dynamic ad-hoc communication systems. In such a case we need coding schemes that exploit the cooperation links if they are present, and can still operate if cooperation is not possible. In this work we study the general broadcast channel model with degraded message sets and cooperation links that may be absent, and derive it's capacity region under such uncertainty conditions.

2017: The Arbitrarily Varying Broadcast Channel with Degraded Message Sets with Causal Side Information at the Encoder
Abstract: In this work, we study the arbitrarily varying broadcast channel (AVBC), when state information is available at the transmitter in a causal manner. We establish inner and outer bounds on both the random code capacity region and the deterministic code capacity region with degraded message sets. The capacity region is then determined for a class of channels satisfying a condition on the mutual informations between the strategy variables and the channel outputs. As an example, we consider the arbitrarily varying binary symmetric broadcast channel with correlated noises. We show cases where the condition holds, hence the capacity region is determined, and other cases where there is a gap between the bounds.

2017: Channels With Cooperation Links That May Be Absent
Abstract: It is well known that cooperation between users in a communication network can lead to significant performance gains. A common assumption in past works is that all the users are aware of the resources available for cooperation, and know exactly to what extent these resources can be used. Unfortunately, in many modern communication networks, the availability of cooperation links cannot be guaranteed a priori, due to the dynamic nature of the network. In this paper, a family of models is suggested where the cooperation links may or may not be present. Coding schemes are devised that exploit the cooperation links if they are present, and can still operate (although at reduced rates) if cooperation is not possible.

2016: Multiple access channel with unreliable cribbing
Abstract: It is by now well-known that cooperation between users can lead to significant performance gains. A common assumption in past works is that all the users are aware of the resources available for cooperation, and know exactly to what extent these resources can be used. In this work, we consider the multiple access channel (MAC) with (strictly causal, causal, and non-causal) cribbing that may be absent. The derived achievable regions are based on universal coding scheme which exploit the cribbing link if it is present, and can still operate (although at reduced rates) if cribbing is absent. We derive also an outer bound, which for some special case is tight.

2016: Cooperation Strategies for the Broadcast and Multiple Access Channels
Abstract: —It has long been observed that cooperation between users in a communication network can improve its performance and simplify the coding schemes. In this talk I will describe recent results on cooperation for the broadcast and multiple access channels, and discuss few of the difﬁculties that arise when the number of users is large. New results and insights will be presented for speciﬁc scenarios.

