Recent papers for Tal Mor:

2024: Discretized Quantum Exhaustive Search for Variational Quantum Algorithms
Abstract: Quantum computers promise a great computational advantage over classical computers, yet currently available quantum devices have only a limited amount of qubits and a high level of noise, limiting the size of problems that can be solved accurately with those devices. Variational Quantum Algorithms (VQAs) have emerged as a leading strategy to address these limitations by optimizing cost functions based on measurement results of shallow-depth circuits. However, the optimization process usually suffers from severe trainability issues as a result of the exponentially large search space, mainly local minima and barren plateaus. Here we propose a novel method that can improve variational quantum algorithms -- ``discretized quantum exhaustive search''. On classical computers, exhaustive search, also named brute force, solves small-size NP complete and NP hard problems. Exhaustive search and efficient partial exhaustive search help designing heuristics and exact algorithms for solving larger-size problems by finding easy subcases or good approximations. We adopt this method to the quantum domain, by relying on mutually unbiased bases for the $2^n$-dimensional Hilbert space. We define a discretized quantum exhaustive search that works well for small size problems. We provide an example of an efficient partial discretized quantum exhaustive search for larger-size problems, in order to extend classical tools to the quantum computing domain, for near future and far future goals. Our method enables obtaining intuition on NP-complete and NP-hard problems as well as on Quantum Merlin Arthur (QMA)-complete and QMA-hard problems. We demonstrate our ideas in many simple cases, providing the energy landscape for various problems and presenting two types of energy curves via VQAs.

2023: Geometry of entanglement and separability in Hilbert subspaces of dimension up to three
Abstract: None

2022: Composable Security of Generalized BB84 Protocols Against General Attacks
Abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols make it possible for two parties to generate a secret shared key. One of the most important QKD protocols, BB84, was suggested by Bennett and Brassard in 1984. Various proofs of unconditional security for BB84 have been suggested, but the first security proofs were not composable. Here we improve a security proof of BB84 given by Biham, Boyer, Boykin, Mor, and Roychowdhury [1] to be composable and match the state-of-the-art results for BB84, and we extend it to prove unconditional security of several variants of the BB84 protocol. Our composable security proof for BB84 and its variants is mostly self-contained, algebraic, and relatively simple, and it gives tight finite-key bounds.

2022: Algorithmic cooling for resolving state preparation and measurement errors in quantum computing
Abstract: State preparation and measurement errors are commonly regarded as indistinguishable. The problem of distinguishing state preparation (SPAM) errors from measurement errors is important to the field of characterizing quantum processors. In this work, we propose a method to separately characterize SPAM errors using a novel type of algorithmic cooling protocol called measurement-based algorithmic cooling (MBAC). MBAC assumes the ability to perform (potentially imperfect) projective measurements on individual qubits, which is available on many modern quantum processors. We demonstrate that MBAC can significantly reduce state preparation error under realistic assumptions, with a small overhead that can be upper bounded by measurable quantities. Thus, MBAC can be a valuable tool not only for benchmarking near-term quantum processors, but also for improving the performance of quantum processors in an algorithmic manner.

2021: Digital Signatures with Quantum Candies
Abstract: Quantum candies (qandies) represent a type of pedagogical simple model that describes many concepts from quantum information processing (QIP) intuitively without the need to understand or make use of superpositions and without the need of using complex algebra. One of the topics in quantum cryptography that has gained research attention in recent years is quantum digital signatures (QDS), which involve protocols to securely sign classical bits using quantum methods. In this paper, we show how the “qandy model” can be used to describe three QDS protocols in order to provide an important and potentially practical example of the power of “superpositionless” quantum information processing for individuals without background knowledge in the field.

2021: Non-NP-Hardness of Translationally-Invariant Spin-Model Problems
Abstract: Finding the ground state energy of the Heisenberg Hamiltonian is an important problem in the field of condensed matter physics. In some configurations, such as the antiferromagnetic translationally-invariant case on the 2D square lattice, its exact ground state energy is still unknown. We show that finding the ground state energy of the Heisenberg model cannot be an NP-Hard problem unless P=NP. We prove this result using a reduction to a sparse set and certain theorems from computational complexity theory. The result hints at the potential tractability of the problem and encourages further research towards a positive complexity result. In addition, we prove similar results for many similarly structured Hamiltonian problems, including certain forms of the Ising, t-J, and Fermi-Hubbard models.

2021: Quantum information and beyond -- with quantum candies
Abstract: The field of quantum information is becoming more known to the general public. However, effectively demonstrating the concepts underneath quantum science and technology to the general public can be a challenging job. We investigate, extend, and greatly expand here “quantum candies” (invented by Jacobs), a pedagogical model for intuitively describing some basic concepts in quantum information, including quantum bits, complementarity, the no-cloning principle, and entanglement. Following Jacob’s quantum candies description of the well-known quantum key distribution protocol BB84, we explicitly demonstrate additional quantum cryptography protocols and quantum communication protocols, using generalized quantum candies (including correlated pairs of qandies). These demonstrations are done in an approachable manner, that can be explained to high-school students, without using the hard-to-grasp concept of superpositions and its mathematics. The intuitive model we investigate has a fascinating overlap with some of the most basic features of quantum theory. Hence, it can be a valuable tool for science and engineering educators who would like to help the general public to gain more insights into quantum science and technology. For the experts, the model we present, due to not employing quantum superpositions, enables — in some sense — extending far beyond quantum theory. Most remarkably, “quantum” candies of some unique type can be defined, such that non-local boxes (of the Popescu-Rohrlich type) as well as regular (correlated) quantum candies can be generated by a single “quantum” candies machine. Keywords— Quantum Information, Quantum Cryptography, Quantum Candy, Physics Education, Nonlocal Boxes

2021: Illustrating quantum information with quantum candies
Abstract: The ﬁeld of quantum information is becoming more known to the general public. However, eﬀectively demonstrating the concepts underneath quantum science and technology to the general public can be a challenging job. We investigate, extend, and much expand here “quantum candies” (invented by Jacobs), a pedagogical model for intuitively describing some basic concepts in quantum information, including quantum bits, complementarity, the no-cloning principle, and entanglement. Following Jacob’s quantum candies description of the well-known quantum key distribution protocol BB84, we explicitly demonstrate various additional quantum cryptography protocols using quantum candies in an approachable manner. The model we investigate can be a valuable tool for science and engineering educators who would like to help the general public to gain more insights into quantum science and technology: most parts of this paper, including many protocols for quantum cryptography, are expected to be easily under-standable by a layperson without any previous knowledge of mathematics, physics, or cryptography.

2021: Coding triplets in the tRNA acceptor‐TΨC arm and their role in present and past tRNA recognition
Abstract: The mechanism and evolution of the recognition scheme between key components of the translation system, that is, tRNAs, synthetases, and elongation factors, are fundamental issues in understanding the translation of genetic information into proteins. Statistical analysis of bacterial tRNA sequences reveals that for six amino acids, a string of 10 nucleotides preceding the tRNA 3' end carries cognate coding triplets to nearly full extent. The triplets conserved in positions 63–67 are implicated in the recognition by the elongation factor EF‐Tu, and those conserved in positions 68–72, in the identification of cognate tRNAs, and their derived minihelices by class IIa synthetases. These coding triplets are suggested to have primordial origin, being engaged in aminoacylation of prebiotic tRNAs and in the establishment of the canonical codon set.

2020: Quantum Candies and Quantum Cryptography
Abstract: None

2020: Quantum Communication—Celebrating the Silver Jubilee of Teleportation
Abstract: In 1993, Charles H [...].

2020: ROS1 in Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer—Combined Immunotherapy (PD1/CTLA4) or Targeted Therapy?
Abstract: ROS1 oncogenic fusion is reported to be 1% - 2% of non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) of the adenocarcinoma 
subgroup. Meanwhile, there are no records of squamous cell cancer patients with 
tumors harboring ROS1 fusions. The Foundation Medicine database indicates a 
frequency of ROS1 rearrangements is 0.2% among squamous NSCLC. Crizotinib is 
known to be very effective in these patients. Here we present a non-smoker patient who had pure 
squamous NSCLC that was treated by combinational immunotherapy under a clinical 
trial and progressed after 2 cycles. Surprisingly, comprehensive genomic 
profiling detected a rare oncogenic EZR-ROS1 fusion, and the patient was 
treated by crizotinib with a significant response within 6 weeks. To date, the 
patient has been on therapy for 42 months and has 
achieved a complete metabolic response.

2020: From Practice to Theory: The "Bright Illumination" Attack on Quantum Key Distribution Systems
Abstract: None

2020: Security Proof Against Collective Attacks for an Experimentally Feasible Semiquantum Key Distribution Protocol
Abstract: Semiquantum key distribution (SQKD) allows two parties (Alice and Bob) to create a shared secret key, even if one of these parties (say, Alice) is classical. However, most SQKD protocols suffer from severe practical security problems when implemented using photons. The recently developed “Mirror protocol” (Boyer, Katz, Liss, and Mor, 2017) is an experimentally feasible SQKD protocol overcoming those drawbacks. The Mirror protocol was proven robust (namely, it was proven secure against a limited class of attacks including all noiseless attacks), but its security in case some noise is allowed (natural or due to eavesdropping) has not been proved yet. Here, we prove the security of the Mirror protocol against a wide class of quantum attacks (“collective attacks”), and we evaluate the allowed noise threshold and the resulting key rate.

2019: A pr 2 01 4 Experimental Heat-Bath Cooling of Spins
Abstract: Algorithmic cooling (AC) is a method to purify quantum systems, such as ensembles of nuclear spins, or cold atoms in an optical lattice. When applied to spins, AC produces ensembles of highly polarized spins, which enhance the signal strength in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). According to this cooling approach, spin-half nuclei in a constant magnetic field are considered as bits, or more precisely, quantum bits, in a known probability distribution. Algorithmic steps on these bits are then translated into specially designed NMR pulse sequences using common NMR quantum computation tools. The algorithmic cooling of spins is achieved by alternately combining reversible, entropypreserving manipulations (borrowed from data compression algorithms) with selective reset, the transfer of entropy from selected spins to the environment. In theory, applying algorithmic cooling to sufficiently large spin systems may produce polarizations far beyond the limits due to conservation of Shannon entropy. Here, only selective reset steps are performed, hence we prefer to call this process “heat-bath” cooling, rather than algorithmic cooling. We experimentally implement here two consecutive steps of selective reset that transfer entropy from two selected spins to the environment. We performed such cooling experiments with commercially-available labeled molecules, on standard liquid-state NMR spectrometers. Our experiments yielded polarizations that bypass Shannon’s entropy-conservation bound, so that the entire spin-system was cooled. This paper was initially submitted in 2005, first to Science and then to PNAS, and includes additional results from subsequent years (e.g. for resubmission in 2007). The PostScriptum includes more details.

2019: Coding triplets in the transfer RNA arm and their role in present and past tRNA recognition
Abstract: Background The evolutionary pathway of tRNA established the linking of the genetic code and protein synthesis, thus, revealing the characteristics of the prebiotic tRNA is crucial for presenting a feasible scenario for the emergence of life. Results Analysis of bacterial tRNA sequences reveals that for nine amino acids, mostly those considered to be the most ancient ones, the acceptor-TΨC arm carries cognate coding triplets far beyond statistical expectation. The contemporary determinants for the recognition of tRNAs and minihelices by the cognate synthetases and by EF-Tu, are part of these conserved triplets. We also find a strong correlation between the extent of the coding triplet conservation and amino acids whose contemporary synthetases belong to class IIa. Conclusions Identification of conserved coding triplets within the tRNA acceptor-TΨC stem, along with the analysis of their distinctive layout, is suggestive of a continuous evolutionary path that could have led to the appearance of the early translation system.

2019: Risk of death without appropriate defibrillator shock in patients with advanced renal dysfunction
Abstract: AIMS
Heart failure patients with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) may experience an increased rate of non-arrhythmic mortality due to associated comorbidities. We aimed to evaluate the risk of mortality without appropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) shocks in this high-risk population.


METHODS AND RESULTS
The study population comprised 3542 patients who received an ICD, were enrolled, and prospectively followed-up in the Israeli ICD registry. Study patients were categorized into two groups: those with advanced CKD [defined by a glomerular filtration rate of <30 mL/min/1.73 m2 or being on dialysis at time of implantation (n = 197)], and those without advanced CKD (n = 3344). The primary endpoint was the risk of death without receiving appropriate ICD shock. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that at 5 years of follow-up the rates of death without prior ICD shock were significantly higher in the advanced kidney disease group (46%) compared with the non-advanced CKD group (19%; log-rank P-value <0.001). Consistently, multivariate analysis showed that the risk of death without receiving appropriate ICD shock therapy at 5 years was 2.5-fold (P < 0.001) higher among advanced CKD patients. In contrast, the rate of appropriate ICD shock therapy at 5 years among advanced CKD patients was only 9%, with a very high mortality rate (63%) within 3.5 years subsequent to shock therapy.


CONCLUSION
Nearly one-half of ICD with advanced CKD die within 5 years without receiving an appropriate ICD shock. These findings stress the importance of appropriate patient selection for primary ICD implantation in this high-risk population.

2018: Topological order on the Bloch sphere
Abstract: A Bloch sphere is the geometrical representation of an arbitrary two-dimensional Hilbert space. Possible classes of entanglement and separability for the pure and mixed states on the Bloch sphere were suggested by [Boyer et al 2017 PRA 95 032 308]. Here we construct a Bloch sphere for the Hilbert space spanned by one of the ground states of Kitaev’s toric code model and one of its closest product states. We prove that this sphere contains only one separable state, thus belonging to the fourth class suggested by the said paper. We furthermore study the topological order of the pure states on its surface and conclude that, according to conventional definitions, only one state (the toric code ground state) seems to present non-trivial topological order. We conjecture that most of the states on this Bloch sphere are neither ‘trivial’ states (namely, they cannot be generated from a product state using a trivial circuit) nor topologically ordered. In addition, we show that the whole setting can be understood in terms of Grover rotations with gauge symmetry, akin to the quantum search algorithm.

2018: On Code-Prompting Auto-Catalytic Sets and the Origins of Coded Life
Abstract: The genetic code and genetic evolution are at the core of complexity in biology, however, there is no reasonable explanation yet for the emergence of the genetic code. We present here a possible scenario accounting for the emergence of “coded life” in nature: We describe the emergence of the genetic code from molecular evolution (prior to genetic evolution). This process is based on increase in concentration of chemical self-replicating sets of molecules, located within (probably non-biological) compartments. Our scenario is obtained by combining the conceptual idea of “code-prompting autocatalytic sets” (Agmon and Mor, 2015), with recent results about non-enzymatic template replication methods (Prywes et al, 2016), possibly relevant to the prebiotic stage preceding RNA-world. In the scenario described here, we often use computer science viewpoint and abstraction: We consider sets of strings composed of letters, such that each letter represents a molecular building block — mainly nucleotides and amino acids, and each string represents a more complex molecule which is some concatenation of the simpler molecules represented by letters; the biochemical rules are described in an abstract language of rules and statistics of letters and strings. We then suggest a novel path, containing several phases, for the emergence of “coded life”.

2018: “Quantumness” versus “classicality” of quantum states and quantum protocols
Abstract: The work of BG was funded by EPSRC and Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. T.M was funded by the Wolfson Foundation and the Israeli MOD Research and Technology Unit. AB and TM were partly supported The Gerald Schwartz & Heather Reis- man Foundation.

