Recent papers for Tessler Nir:

2025: Improved organic electrochemical transistor stability using solvent degassing and chemical doping
Abstract: None

2024: An easy to implement strategy for improving organic electrochemical transistor stability: combining chemical doping with solvent degassing
Abstract: None

2024: Device simulations of perovskite transistors containing mobile ions and their relevance to experimental data
Abstract: We present a device simulation of lead-halide perovskite-based thin film transistors (TFTs) containing mobile charged species to provide physical reasoning for the various experimental reports. We study the output characteristics for a range of scan duration (1/speed), average mobile ion densities, and N- and P-channel TFTs. We then directly compare our results to published data by Zeidell et al. [Adv. Electron. Mater. 4(12), 1800316 (2018)] and show that if the transistor’s measurement procedure is such that the ions’ effects are apparent, and then, our model can resolve the sign of the mobile ions in their MAPbI3−xClx TFTs (cations) and provide a good estimate of their density (∼1017 cm−3 at 200 k). Interestingly, we find that effects previously associated with channel screening are due to the ion-blocking of the charge extraction and that the incomplete saturation often reported is due to ion-induced channel shortening. Utilizing the same perovskite materials as in solar cells would allow researchers to improve their understanding of the mechanisms governing solar photovoltaics and improve their performance.

2024: Switching response and ionic hysteresis in organic electrochemical transistors
Abstract: Hysteresis in organic electrochemical transistors (OECT) is a basic effect in which the measured current depends on the voltage sweep direction and velocity. This phenomenon has an important impact on different aspects of the application of OECT, such as the switching time and the synaptic properties for neuromorphic applications. Here we address the combined ionic and electronic kinetic effects that cause the dominant hysteresis effects. We use a combination of tools consisting on basic analytical models, advanced 2D drift-diffusion simulation, and the experimental measurement of a Poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) OECT, working in an accumulation mode. We develop a general transmission line model considering drift electronic transport and ionic injection and diffusion from the electrolyte. We provide a basic classification of the transient response to a voltage pulse, according to the dominant ionic or electronic relaxation time, and the correspondent hysteresis effects of the transfer curves according to the general categories of inductive and capacitive hysteresis. These are basically related to the main control phenomenon, either the vertical diffusion of ions during doping and dedoping, or the equilibration of electronic current along the channel length.

2024: Transient Current Responses of Organic Electrochemical Transistors: Evaluating Ion Diffusion, Chemical Capacitance, and Series Elements
Abstract: For the successful implementation of organic electrochemical transistors in neuromorphic computing, bioelectronics, and real‐time sensing applications it is essential to understand the factors that influence device switching times. This work describes a physical‐electrochemical model of the transient response to a step of the gate voltage. The model incorporates 1) ion diffusion inside the channel that governs the electronic conductivity, 2) horizontal electron transport, and 3) the external elements (capacitance, ionic resistance) of the ion dynamics in the electrolyte. This work finds a general expression of two different time constants that determine the vertical insertion process in terms of the transport/polarization parameters, in addition to the electronic transit time. The work highlights the central role of the chemical capacitance in determining the modulation of the lateral conductivity. The different types of response of the drain current are classified, and the significance for synaptic operation in neuromorphic circuits is discussed. The model is confirmed by detailed simulations that enable to visualize the different ions distributions and dynamics.

2024: Electrical Doping of Metal Halide Perovskites by Co-evaporation and Application in PN Junctions.
Abstract: Electrical doping of semiconductors is a revolutionary development that enabled many electronic and optoelectronic technologies. While doping of many inorganic and organic semiconductors has been well-established, controlled electrical doping of metal halide perovskites is yet to be demonstrated. In this work, we achieve efficient n- and p-type electrical doping of metal halide perovskites by co-evaporating the perovskite precursors alongside organic dopant molecules. We demonstrate that the Fermi level can be shifted by up to 500 meV towards the conduction band and by up to 400 meV towards the valence band by n- and p-doping, respectively, which increases the conductivity of the films. The doped layers were employed in PN and NP diodes, showing opposing trends in rectification. Demonstrating controlled electrical doping by a scalable, industrially relevant deposition method opens the route to developing perovskite devices beyond solar cells, such as thermoelectrics or complementary logic. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

2024: A fresh look at the OECT electrochemical model
Abstract: None

2024: Switching Response in Organic Electrochemical Transistors by Ionic Diffusion and Electronic Transport
Abstract: Abstract The switching response in organic electrochemical transistors (OECT) is a basic effect in which a transient current occurs in response to a voltage perturbation. This phenomenon has an important impact on different aspects of the application of OECT, such as the equilibration times, the hysteresis dependence on scan rates, and the synaptic properties for neuromorphic applications. Here we establish a model that unites vertical ion diffusion and horizontal electronic transport for the analysis of the time‐dependent current response of OECTs. We use a combination of tools consisting of a physical analytical model; advanced 2D drift‐diffusion simulation; and the experimental measurement of a poly(3‐hexylthiophene) (P3HT) OECT. We show the reduction of the general model to simple time‐dependent equations for the average ionic/hole concentration inside the organic film, which produces a Bernards‐Malliaras conservation equation coupled with a diffusion equation. We provide a basic classification of the transient response to a voltage pulse, and the correspondent hysteresis effects of the transfer curves. The shape of transients is basically related to the main control phenomenon, either the vertical diffusion of ions during doping and dedoping, or the equilibration of electronic current along the channel length.

2024: Enhancing the Performance of Electrochemical RAM (ECRAM) through Modeling Guided Device Engineering
Abstract: Traditionally, the only ions allowed or welcomed by the microelectronic industry are those that act as fixed dopants. The issue of mobile ions became welcome primarily due to the memristor technology however, thin film transistor technologies benefit from them too. The electrochemical (transistor) random access memory (ECRAM) is emerging as a promising building block for multi-level neuromorphic computing. Using FAB-compatible materials we construct the ECRAM using CuOx as the gate and ions source (Cu+). The morphology of the HfOx gate insulator layer is tuned to render it ion transporting such that it can act as a uniform electrolyte layer. Lastly, the channel material is WOx with tungsten metal as the source/drain contact.
 While there are several reports of ECRAM devices, the operation mechanisms are not fully known/understood thus withholding progress of this field. Using the Sentaurus device simulator by Synopsis, including the hydrogen diffusion module, we simulate the mixed ionic electronic operation of the device. We have recently reported that by fitting the simulation to the device performance, we could identify the potentiation mechanism (i.e., insulator charging) and the occurrence of copper plating that takes place under high Cu+ ion flux (as in fast charging of Li batteries).[1]
 In the first part of the talk, we will expand on the chemical-physics details of the ECRAM device mentioned above. Next, we will present a new device architecture where we remove the WOx layer and study the ionic-electronic conduction of a modified HfOx layer. By fine-tuning the stoichiometry of the HfOx layer, it assumes both roles of ionic electrolyte and electronic conducting channel. Following detailed modelling of the measured properties, we introduce AlO2 as an ionic barrier layer at the WOx/HfOx interface to enhance the ionic retention of the HfOx layer. Using the above three device architectures in conjunction with the mixed ionic-electronic device simulation we reveal the role of the two memory mechanisms: a) Electric field-activated ion transport and b) Structure-induced trapping by ion-barrier layers.
 Reference
 [1] Nir Tessler, Nayeon Kim, Heebum Kang, Jiyong Woo; Switching mechanisms of CMOS-compatible ECRAM transistors—Electrolyte charging and ion plating. J. Appl. Phys. 21 August 2023; 134 (7): 074501. https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0154153
 
 
 
 
 Figure 1


2024: Strategy to improve synaptic behavior of ion-actuated synaptic transistors—the use of ion blocking layer to improve state retention
Abstract: None

2024: (Invited) Device Engineering of Organic Electro-Chemical Transistors and Solar Cells
Abstract: Traditionally, new material-based technologies evolve first through chemistry and physics, with device engineering assuming a key role only towards commercialization. The device structure of an OLED pixel in any screen is a testament to the contribution of engineering to the challenge of achieving efficient and stable devices. In the talk, I will discuss two fields where this is yet to happen. The first is the organic electrochemical transistors, and the second is the solution-processed organic solar cells. Using both a detailed 2D chemical-physics semiconductor device model and a rate-equation level model, I will delve into the physics and electrochemistry of OECTs showing the role of electrode reactions and counter ions. In the context of OPVs, I will show that focusing on the performance at the maximum power point, instead of the short and open circuit, allows the design where the device contributes to charge generation and extraction.

2024: Experimentally verified organic electrochemical transistor model
Abstract: The Bernards–Malliaras model, published in 2007, is the primary reference for the operation of organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs). It assumes that, as in most transistors, the electronic transport is drift only. However, in other electrochemical devices, such as batteries, the charge neutrality is accompanied by diffusion-only transport. Using detailed 2D device simulations of the entire structure while accounting for ionic and electronic conduction, we show that high ion density (>1019 cm−3) results in Debye screening of the drain–source bias at the electrodes’ interface. Hence, unlike the drift-only current in standard FETs or low ion density OECTs, the current in high ion density OECTs is diffusion only. Also, we show that since in OECTs, the volumetric capacitor and the semiconductor are one, the threshold voltage has a different meaning than that in FETs, where the semiconductor and the gate-oxide capacitor are distinct entities. We use the above insights to derive a new model useful to experimentalists. Lastly, we fabricated PEDOT:PSS fiber-OECTs and used the results to verify the model.

2024: Unveiling the Impact of the Electrolyte's Counter Ions on Organic Electrochemical Transistor Performance
Abstract: The effect of the electrolyte's counter‐ion in organic electrochemical transistors is often neglected. the influence of anions (i.e., counter ions) is investigated on organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs) with a PEDOT:PSS‐like semiconductor through device simulations. The study examined the effects of mobile anions on OECT performance under two scenarios: when anions are blocked by the semiconductor and when they can penetrate it. In each case, the OECT's ON and OFF states are analyzed. The findings show that when anions can penetrate the semiconductor, the ON/OFF ratio of the OECT remains unchanged while the transconductance significantly increases. In the ON state, the case of blocked anions is observed that the current is predominantly surface‐current, whereas it becomes volumetric only when anions can penetrate the semiconductor. Furthermore, the extreme case is explored in which anions remain stationary within the electrolyte. In this scenario, achieving a reasonable ON/OFF ratio necessitates an ion density within the electrolyte that is two orders of magnitude higher than the dopant density of the semiconductor. This work underscores the substantial influence of counter anions on OECT performance, highlighting their critical role in shaping device behavior.

2023: Perovskite ionics – elucidating degradation mechanisms in perovskite solar cells via device modelling and iodine chemistry
Abstract: Accounting for the perovskite ionic transport and reactions reveals the importance of the electron blocking (hole transporting) layer in determining device stability.

2023: Direct correlation between the built-in potential and the power conversion efficiency of NFA organic solar cells
Abstract: While it is known that too low built-in potential is detrimental to cells' performance, there is no consensus regarding the importance of maximizing the internal electric field or the built-in potential for achieving the highest power conversion efficiency of non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) organic solar cells. We use one of the prototypical NFA bulk heterojunction solar cells to show a direct correlation between the built-in potential, the open circuit voltage, the fill factor, and the device's efficiency. This is achieved using statistical analysis of devices made of two different cathodes (Ag, Mg) and a simple, intuitive model for the solar cell's current–voltage characteristics. Designing device structures with enhanced built-in potential (internal electric field) is crucial for surpassing the 20% efficiency limit.

2023: Optimized Doping of Diffusion Blocking Layers and Their Impact on the Performance of Perovskite Photovoltaics
Abstract: The roll-to-roll printing production process for hybrid organic–inorganic perovskite solar cells (PSCs) demands thick and high-performance solution-based diffusion blocking layers. Inverted (p-i-n) PSCs usually incorporate solution-processed PC70BM as the electron-transporting layer (ETL), which offers good electron charge extraction and passivation of the perovskite active layer grain boundaries. Thick fullerene diffusion blocking layers could benefit the long-term lifetime performance of inverted PSCs. However, the low conductivity of PC70BM significantly limits the thickness of the PC70BM buffer layer for optimized PSC performance. In this work, we show that by applying just enough N-DMBI doping principle, we can maintain the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of inverted PSCs with a thick (200 nm) PC70BM diffusion blocking layer. To better understand the origin of an optimal doping level, we combined the experimental results with simulations adapted to the PSCs reported here. Importantly, just enough 0.3% wt N-DMBI-doped 200 nm PC70BM diffusion blocking layer-based inverted PCSs retain a high thermal stability at 60 °C of up to 1000 h without sacrificing their PCE photovoltaic parameters.

2023: Unified Modelling of Organic Electrochemical Transistors and Inorganic Electrochemical RAM
Abstract: None

2023: Switching mechanisms of CMOS-compatible ECRAM transistors—Electrolyte charging and ion plating
Abstract: To elucidate the internal chemical physics of measured CMOS-compatible electrochemical random-access memory (ECRAM) devices, we constructed a 2D semiconductor device simulation, including ions and electrochemical reactions, and used it to fit measured devices. We present the results of a device simulation model that includes Cu+ ions’ diffusion and the charge transfer reaction between the WOx conduction band electron and Cu+ (i.e., “Cu plating”). Reproducing the linear response of ECRAM devices, the effect of charging HfOx by the Cu+ ions is sufficient, and WOx is not being doped by the Cu+ ions. While potentiation is supported by the formation of an electron channel, an efficient depression requires the formation of high positive charge density at the channel material. At higher Cu+ flux, Cu+ reaches and penetrates the WOx layer. While this effect enhances the potentiation response, it also initiates the “plating” reactions. Including this reaction is essential to reproducing the data of devices exhibiting sub-linear responses. We suggest that electron trapping by ions (i.e., plating) would constitute a long-term degradation process even for H+ based devices.

2023: Device Simulations of Perovskite Transistors Containing Mobile Iodide
Abstract: None

2022: Radiofrequency Schottky Diodes Based on p-Doped Copper(I) Thiocyanate (CuSCN)
Abstract: Schottky diodes based on inexpensive materials that can be processed using simple manufacturing methods are of particular importance for the next generation of flexible electronics. Although a number of high-frequency n-type diodes and rectifiers have been demonstrated, the progress with p-type diodes is lagging behind, mainly due to the intrinsically low conductivities of existing p-type semiconducting materials that are compatible with low-temperature, flexible, substrate-friendly processes. Herein, we report on CuSCN Schottky diodes, where the semiconductor is processed from solution, featuring coplanar Al–Au nanogap electrodes (<15 nm), patterned via adhesion lithography. The abundant CuSCN material is doped with the molecular p-type dopant fluorofullerene C60F48 to improve the diode’s operating characteristics. Rectifier circuits fabricated with the doped CuSCN/C60F48 diodes exhibit a 30-fold increase in the cutoff frequency as compared to pristine CuSCN diodes (from 140 kHz to 4 MHz), while they are able to deliver output voltages of >100 mV for a VIN = ±5 V at the commercially relevant frequency of 13.56 MHz. The enhanced diode and circuit performance is attributed to the improved charge transport across CuSCN induced by C60F48. The ensuing diode technology can be used in flexible complementary circuits targeting low-energy-budget applications for the emerging internet of things device ecosystem.

