Recent papers for Uzzi Ornan:

2016: Phonemes and Their Realization in Hebrew
Abstract: Observational terms should be distinguished from theoretical ones. Sounds of spoken language are observational terms. We can hear them or record them as real entities. What are the connections between the various terms? All phones (sounds of speech) that relate to a certain phoneme share some phonetic features, and these features define a theoretical term which is the certain phoneme. The phoneme itself cannot be heard, since the realization of a phoneme is a phone, an observational entity which always has more external features.We show that /b/, /k/, and /p/ are each one phoneme, which is realized in certain phones. The claim that each of them split into two phonemes is dealt with, and our conclusion is that there is no basis to suggest it. We show that other languages also have some phonemes that are in a similar situation, for example, English delete—deletion or produce—product. The split to two phonemes that Weiman and Rosén suggested emerged not from the facts but from false principles in structural linguistics. Rosén had later to follow it up by the idea that there are “complex roots” in Hebrew. Thus the problem is shifted from philology to morphology and to the lexicon. Some further deficiencies in structural lore are noted.We also show that there is no need to apply to other related languages (Aramaic or Arabic) to discover theoretical forms in present Hebrew. They are not historical remnants but living entities existing in the linguistic knowledge of every Hebrew speaker.

2016: Phonemic Conversion as the Ideal Romanization Scheme for Hebrew: Implications for Hebrew Cataloging
Abstract: This paper examines a romanization scheme developed by linguist Uzzi Ornan that has not been considered for implementation in libraries. Phonemic conversion of Hebrew neither uses transliteration nor transcription strategies but reconstructs the theoretical structure of the original Hebrew word based on its phonemes. The article describes this scheme and its benefits, which include full coverage of all historical periods and script modes of Hebrew, and full reversibility, complete with an online interface that enables automatic conversion. The article compares the suggested phonemic conversion scheme with the ALA/LC Romanization of Hebrew and provides a history of previously attempted reversal schemes.

2014: Innovation of Verbs in Hebrew
Abstract: None

2011: Problems of the Content Clause in Hebrewp
Abstract: A content clause is a subordinate clause usually describing the content of a word existing as an antecedent in the main clause. In this paper, we present an overview of the Hebrew studies devoted to content clauses since this structure was first recognized and described until a recent paper from 2008, where a multitude of examples from all periods have been gathered. A special section describes Jespersen's contribution to the topic, even though this great linguist did not directly investigate this issue per se. The content clause as an adjectival clause is the most interesting point. It differs from other adjectival clauses in some essential features. A conclusive investigation should also reveal the source of these differences. Such a review might clarify the essential features of the content clause. It also shows how the science of linguistics is developing by discussions and mutual criticism. We will not refrain from criticism where it may clarify details in order to achieve better understanding.This paper also demonstrates the efforts to formalize semantics, that is, to incorporate semantic features or even certain dictionary entries within syntactic rules. Here we can define new sets of features of nouns and verbs serving as an antecedent followed by a content clause. These lists of words may be considered a part of the syntax. They share not only semantic features but syntactic features as well.

2011: Hebrew Word Structure: Its Rendering in Pointing and in Latin Conversion
Abstract: In an earlier article I noted that the conversion system of the Standards Institute of Israel—SII—(FDIS ISO 259-3) is more precise than the pointed Hebrew version, even if it does not include a visible distinction between short and long vowels, and even if it has no special sign for ḥaṭap's.This statement calls for explanation and proof, which I propose to provide in this article. It details the drawbacks of pointing and the advantages of phonemic conversion in the elucidation of Hebrew word structure.

2003: Latin Conversion of Hebrew: Grammatical, Full and Deficient
Abstract: Latin script for Hebrew is being used in many domains. A uniform system is desirable, and might be better achieved by a phonemic conversion rather than by transliteration or transcription. In this approach a unified set of rules of writing covers all periods of Hebrew, while for each period and dialect a separate set of reading rules should be formulated. Thus we consider Hebrew to be one language since it first appeared until this day, but recognize different realizations of the language in various periods. Both kinds of rules are supplied here, and a third set of "reconstruction rules," that is, re-converting converted texts into regular Hebrew script is also given.

2003: The Mysteries of Waw Connective
Abstract: None

2002: A Morphological, Syntactic and Semantic Search Engine for Hebrew Texts
Abstract: This article describes the construction of a morphological, syntactic and semantic analyzer to operate a high-grade search engine for Hebrew texts. A good search engine must be complete and accurate. In Hebrew or Arabic script most of the vowels are not written, many particles are attached to the word without space, a double consonant is written with one letter, and some letters signify both vowels and consonants. Thus, almost every string of characters may designate many words (the average in Hebrew is almost three words). As a consequence, deciphering a word necessitates reading the whole sentence. Our model is Fillmore's framework of an expression with a verb as its center. The engine eliminates readings of words unsuited to the syntax or the semantic structure of the sentence. In every verbal entry of our conceptual dictionary the features of the noun phrases (NP's) required by the verb are included. When all the correct readings of all the strings of characters in the sentence have been identified, the program chooses the proper occurrences of the searched word in the text. Approximately 95% of the results by our search engine match those in the query.

2000: Machine translation by semantic features
Abstract: None

1998: Monolingual translator workstation
Abstract: None

1995: Learning Morpho-Lexical Probabilities from an Untagged Corpus with an Application to Hebrew
Abstract: This paper proposes a new approach for acquiring morpho-lexical probabilities from an untagged corpus. This approach demonstrates a way to extract very useful and nontrivial information from an untagged corpus, which otherwise would require laborious tagging of large corpora. The paper describes the use of these morpho-lexical probabilities as an information source for morphological disambiguation in Hebrew. The suggested method depends primarily on the following property: a lexical entry in Hebrew may have many different word forms, some of which are ambiguous and some of which are not. Thus, the disambiguation of a given word can be achieved using other word forms of the same lexical entry. Even though it was originally devised and implemented for dealing with the morphological ambiguity problem in Hebrew, the basic idea can be extended and used to handle similar problems in other languages with rich morphology.

1995: Syntactic Analysis of Hebrew Sentences
Abstract: Abstract Due to recent developments in the area of computational formalisms for linguistic representation, the task of designing a parser for a specified natural language is now shifted to the problem of designing its grammar in certain formal ways. This paper describes the results of a project whose aim was to design a formal grammar for modern Hebrew. Such a formal grammar has never been developed before. Since most of the work on grammatical formalisms was done without regarding Hebrew (and other Semitic languages as well), we had to choose a formalism that would best fit the specific needs of the language. This part of the project has been described elsewhere. In this paper we describe the details of the grammar we developed. The grammar deals with simple, subordinate and coordinate sentences as well as interrogative sentences. Some structures were thoroughly dealt with, among which are noun phrases, verb phrases, adjectival phrases, relative clauses, object and adjunct clauses; many types of adjuncts; subcategorization of verbs; coordination; numerals, etc. For each phrase the parser produces a description of the structure tree of the phrase as well as a representation of the syntactic relations in it. Many examples of Hebrew phrases are demonstrated, together with the structure the parser assigns them. In cases where more than one parse is produced, the reasons of the ambiguity are discussed.

1994: BASIC CONCEPTS IN ``ROMANIZATION'' OF SCRIPTS.
Abstract: None

1992: Acquiring and Exploiting the User’s Knowledge in Guidance Interactions
Abstract: This paper presents a model for Flexible Interactive Guidance System (FIGS) that provides people with instructions about natural tasks. The model is developed on the basis of a phenomenological analysis of human guidance and illustrated by a system that gives directions in geographical domains. The instructions are provided through a dialog adapted both in form and content to user's needs. The main problem addressed is how to provide a user-adapted guidance during the normal course of the guidance dialog, without introducing a special t ime consuming sub-dialog to gain information about the user's state of knowledge.

1990: Machinery for Hebrew word formation
Abstract: None

1989: Program-Generator for OCP in a Language with Heavy Morphology
Abstract: None

1989: A speech-recognition-based system for converting hebrew text to phonetic representation
Abstract: A system for converting Hebrew text into phonetic text is presented. The system applies speech recognition techniques for identifying vowels in spoken text and inserts these vowels in the original vowelless Hebrew text. The original Hebrew text is presented to the user on his computer terminal. The user then reads the text into a microphone and the system analyzes the input voice and converts each word into a string of Linear Prediction coefficients (LPC) vectors which are then compared to vectors stored in a set of codebooks (one codebook per vowel) to find the best match. The identified vowels and their location are then input to a Dynamic-Time-Warping algorithm which matches the acoustic information with the text in order to correctly position the vowels in each word using Hebrew syntax rules. The system could be used in preparing text for automatic, Hebrew Text-To-Speech ( TTS ) systems and in computer aided linguistic studies.

1988: On the Applicability of Two Level Morphology to the Inflection of Hebrew Verbs
Abstract: Hebrew, as other ~emitic languages, has a rich morpl1ology, observable in part by the complexity of verb inflections. The primary base of verbs in Hebrew is the past third singular form of tlfe verb. From this base, some twenty eight different inflected forms can be created according to tense, per~on, gender and number. Traditionally, inflection tables were used to describe the various inflected forms derived from the verb 'base. Research done by Oman has managed to describe the verb inflection process using the principles of Generative Grammar. In' this approach, inflCfted verb forms are viewed as constructs of the form preftx+base+sufftx. Verb inflection is described as a s~ries of sequentialpperations. The first stage converts the primary verb base to a secondary'base, when the secondary base is not the same as the primary base. Secondly, the appropriate prefix and/or suffix are concatenated to the base. Thirdly, several morpho-phonemic changes due to the affix concatenation occur. Algorithms for both generation and analysis according to these principles have been developed. The formalism developed by Koskenniemi, known as Two Level Morphology, proposes describing the morphology of any na,turallanguage by a set of lexicons and a set of Two Level rules, which act in parallel, and transform directly between the lexical and s~rface representations of a word. Thi~ alternative formalism has been used to describe the mOrPhology of several languages, including the major European languages. In our work, we examine the applicability of Two Level Morphology to the description of Hebrew verb inflection. We consider how to apply the Two l~vel framework to the stages of the inflection process of the previ9us approach.We show that the Two Level model can adequately handle the concatenation of the affixes to the verb base, and the resulting morphophonemic changes that occur. However, the first stage of inflection, namely the conversion of the primary base of the verb to the secondary base, is difficult to describe in a natural way using Two Level rules. This requires that the various verb bases be kept in the lexil;on system. We propOse a modification to the model that can solve this problem. In the course of our .work, we created a new implementation of the Two Level model written in PROLOG. In our implementation, Two Level rules are converted directly into PROLOG predicates, making \he use of the finite state automata of the original model unnecessary. We also propose a structural change in the Two Level lexicon system. An outline of our implementation is presented. T ec hn io n C om pu te r Sc ie nc e D ep ar tm en t T eh ni ca l R ep or t C S0 51 3 19 88

1984: HEBREW IN PALESTINE BEFORE AND AFTER 1882
Abstract: None

1978: Generating and Transforming by a Computer without a Dictionary.
Abstract: None

