2024: Multi-Robot Communication-Aware Cooperative Belief Space Planning with Inconsistent Beliefs: An Action-Consistent Approach
Abstract: Multi-robot belief space planning (MR-BSP) is essential for reliable and safe autonomy. While planning, each robot maintains a belief over the state of the environment and reasons how the belief would evolve in the future for different candidate actions. Yet, existing MR-BSP works have a common assumption that the beliefs of different robots are consistent at planning time. Such an assumption is often highly unrealistic, as it requires prohibitively extensive and frequent communication capabilities. In practice, each robot may have a different belief about the state of the environment. Crucially, when the beliefs of different robots are inconsistent, state-of-the-art MR-BSP approaches could result in a lack of coordination between the robots, and in general, could yield dangerous, unsafe and suboptimal decisions. In this paper, we tackle this crucial gap. We develop a novel decentralized algorithm that is guaranteed to find a consistent joint action. For a given robot, our algorithm reasons for action preferences about 1) its local information, 2) what it perceives about the reasoning of the other robot, and 3) what it perceives about the reasoning of itself perceived by the other robot. This algorithm finds a consistent joint action whenever these steps yield the same best joint action obtained by reasoning about action preferences; otherwise, it self-triggers communication between the robots. Experimental results show efficacy of our algorithm in comparison with two baseline algorithms.

2024: Measurement Simplification in $\rho$-POMDP with Performance Guarantees
Abstract: Decision making under uncertainty is at the heart of any autonomous system acting with imperfect information. The cost of solving the decision-making problem is exponential in the action and observation spaces, thus rendering it unfeasible for many online systems. This article introduces a novel approach to efficient decision making, by partitioning the high-dimensional observation space. Using the partitioned observation space, we formulate analytical bounds on the expected information-theoretic reward, for general belief distributions. These bounds are then used to plan efficiently while maintaining performance guarantees. We show that the bounds are adaptive and computationally efficient, and that they converge to the original solution. We extend the partitioning paradigm and present a hierarchy of partitioned spaces that allows greater efficiency in planning. We then propose a specific variant of these bounds for Gaussian beliefs and show a theoretical performance improvement of at least a factor of 4. Finally, we compare our novel method to other state-of-the-art algorithms in active simultaneous localization and mapping scenarios, in simulation and in real experiments. In both cases, we show a significant speedup in planning with performance guarantees.

2023: Measurement Simplification in ρ-POMDP with Performance Guarantees
Abstract: Decision making under uncertainty is at the heart of any autonomous system acting with imperfect information. The cost of solving the decision making problem is exponential in the action and observation spaces, thus rendering it unfeasible for many online systems. This paper introduces a novel approach to efficient decision-making, by partitioning the high-dimensional observation space. Using the partitioned observation space, we formulate analytical bounds on the expected information-theoretic reward, for general belief distributions. These bounds are then used to plan efficiently while keeping performance guarantees. We show that the bounds are adaptive, computationally efficient, and that they converge to the original solution. We extend the partitioning paradigm and present a hierarchy of partitioned spaces that allows greater efficiency in planning. We then propose a specific variant of these bounds for Gaussian beliefs and show a theoretical performance improvement of at least a factor of 4. Finally, we compare our novel method to other state of the art algorithms in active SLAM scenarios, in simulation and in real experiments. In both cases we show a significant speed-up in planning with performance guarantees.

2023: Simplified Continuous High-Dimensional Belief Space Planning With Adaptive Probabilistic Belief-Dependent Constraints
Abstract: Online decision making under uncertainty in partially observable domains, also known as Belief Space Planning, is a fundamental problem in Robotics and Artificial Intelligence. Due to an abundance of plausible future unravelings, calculating an optimal course of action inflicts an enormous computational burden on the agent. Moreover, in many scenarios, e.g., Information gathering, it is required to introduce a belief-dependent constraint. Prompted by this demand, in this article, we consider a recently introduced probabilistic belief-dependent constrained partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP). We present a technique to adaptively accept or discard a candidate action sequence with respect to a probabilistic belief-dependent constraint, before expanding a complete set of sampled future observations episodes and without any loss in accuracy. Moreover, using our proposed framework, we contribute an adaptive method to find a maximal feasible return (e.g., Information Gain) in terms of Value at Risk and a corresponding action sequence, given a set of candidate action sequences, with substantial acceleration. On top of that, we introduce an adaptive simplification technique for a probabilistically constrained setting. Such an approach provably returns an identical-quality solution while dramatically accelerating the online decision making. Our universal framework applies to any belief-dependent constrained continuous POMDP with parameteric beliefs, as well as nonparameteric beliefs represented by particles. In the context of an information-theoretic constraint, our presented framework stochastically quantifies if a cumulative Information Gain along the planning horizon is sufficiently significant (for e.g., Information Gathering, active simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM)). As a case study, we apply our method to two challenging problems of high dimensional belief space planning: active SLAM and sensor deployment. Extensive realistic simulations corroborate the superiority of our proposed ideas.

2023: Data Association Aware POMDP Planning With Hypothesis Pruning Performance Guarantees
Abstract: Autonomous agents that operate in the real world must often deal with partial observability, which is commonly modeled as partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs). However, traditional POMDP models rely on the assumption of complete knowledge of the observation source, known as fully observable data association. To address this limitation, we propose a planning algorithm that maintains multiple data association hypotheses, represented as a belief mixture, where each component corresponds to a different data association hypothesis. However, this method can lead to an exponential growth in the number of hypotheses, resulting in significant computational overhead. To overcome this challenge, we introduce a pruning-based approach for planning with ambiguous data associations. Our key contribution is to derive bounds between the value function based on the complete set of hypotheses and the value function based on a pruned-subset of the hypotheses, enabling us to establish a trade-off between computational efficiency and performance. We demonstrate how these bounds can both be used to certify any pruning heuristic in retrospect and propose a novel approach to determine which hypotheses to prune in order to ensure a predefined limit on the loss. We evaluate our approach in simulated environments and demonstrate its efficacy in handling multi-modal belief hypotheses with ambiguous data associations.

2023: Online POMDP Planning with Anytime Deterministic Guarantees
Abstract: Autonomous agents operating in real-world scenarios frequently encounter uncertainty and make decisions based on incomplete information. Planning under uncertainty can be mathematically formalized using partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs). However, finding an optimal plan for POMDPs can be computationally expensive and is feasible only for small tasks. In recent years, approximate algorithms, such as tree search and sample-based methodologies, have emerged as state-of-the-art POMDP solvers for larger problems. Despite their effectiveness, these algorithms offer only probabilistic and often asymptotic guarantees toward the optimal solution due to their dependence on sampling. To address these limitations, we derive a deterministic relationship between a simplified solution that is easier to obtain and the theoretically optimal one. First, we derive bounds for selecting a subset of the observations to branch from while computing a complete belief at each posterior node. Then, since a complete belief update may be computationally demanding, we extend the bounds to support reduction of both the state and the observation spaces. We demonstrate how our guarantees can be integrated with existing state-of-the-art solvers that sample a subset of states and observations. As a result, the returned solution holds deterministic bounds relative to the optimal policy. Lastly, we substantiate our findings with supporting experimental results.

2023: Simplifying Complex Observation Models in Continuous POMDP Planning with Probabilistic Guarantees and Practice
Abstract: Solving partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) with high dimensional and continuous observations, such as camera images, is required for many real life robotics and planning problems. Recent researches suggested machine learned probabilistic models as observation models, but their use is currently too computationally expensive for online deployment. We deal with the question of what would be the implication of using simplified observation models for planning, while retaining formal guarantees on the quality of the solution. Our main contribution is a novel probabilistic bound based on a statistical total variation distance of the simplified model. We show that it bounds the theoretical POMDP value w.r.t. original model, from the empirical planned value with the simplified model, by generalizing recent results of particle-belief MDP concentration bounds. Our calculations can be separated into offline and online parts, and we arrive at formal guarantees without having to access the costly model at all during planning, which is also a novel result. Finally, we demonstrate in simulation how to integrate the bound into the routine of an existing continuous online POMDP solver.

2023: Topological belief space planning for active SLAM with pairwise Gaussian potentials and performance guarantees
Abstract: Determining a globally optimal solution of belief space planning (BSP) in high-dimensional state spaces directly is computationally expensive, as it involves belief propagation and objective function evaluation for each candidate action. However, many problems of interest, such as active SLAM, exhibit structure that can be harnessed to expedite planning. Also, in order to choose an optimal action, an exact value of the objective function is not required as long as the actions can be sorted in the same way. In this paper we leverage these two key aspects and present the topological belief space planning (t-bsp) concept that uses topological signatures to perform this ranking for information-theoretic cost functions, considering only topologies of factor graphs that correspond to future posterior beliefs. In particular, we propose a highly efficient topological signature based on the von Neumann graph entropy that is a function of graph node degrees and supports an incremental update. We analyze it in the context of active pose SLAM and derive error bounds between the proposed topological signature and the original information-theoretic cost function. These bounds are then used to provide performance guarantees for t-bsp with respect to a given solver of the original information-theoretic BSP problem. Realistic and synthetic simulations demonstrate drastic speed-up of the proposed method with respect to the state-of-the-art methods while retaining the ability to select a near-optimal solution. A proof of concept of t-bsp is given in a small-scale real-world active SLAM experiment.

2022: Adaptive Information Belief Space Planning
Abstract: Reasoning about uncertainty is vital in many real-life autonomous systems. However, current state-of-the-art planning algorithms either cannot reason about uncertainty explicitly, or do so with high computational burden. Here, we focus on making informed decisions efficiently, using reward functions that explicitly deal with uncertainty. We formulate an approximation, namely an abstract observation model, that uses an aggregation scheme to alleviate computational costs. We derive bounds on the expected information-theoretic reward function and, as a consequence, on the value function. We then propose a method to refine aggregation to achieve identical action selection in a fraction of the computational time.

2022: Monte Carlo Planning in Hybrid Belief POMDPs
Abstract: Real-world problems often require reasoning about hybrid beliefs, over both discrete and continuous random variables. Yet, such a setting has hardly been investigated in the context of planning. Moreover, existing online partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) solvers do not support hybrid beliefs directly. In particular, these solvers do not address the added computational burden due to an increasing number of hypotheses with the planning horizon, which can grow exponentially. As part of this work, we present a novel algorithm, Hybrid Belief Monte Carlo Planning (HB-MCP) that utilizes the Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) algorithm to solve a POMDP while maintaining a hybrid belief. We illustrate how the upper confidence bound (UCB) exploration bonus can be leveraged to guide the growth of hypotheses trees alongside the belief trees. We then evaluate our approach in highly aliased simulated environments where unresolved data association leads to multi-modal belief hypotheses.

2022: Qualitative Belief Space Planning via Compositions
Abstract: Planning under uncertainty is a fundamental problem in robotics. Classical approaches rely on a metrical representation of the world and robot's states to infer the next course of action. While these approaches are considered accurate, they are often susceptible to metric errors and tend to be costly regarding memory and time consumption. However, in some cases, relying on qualitative geometric information alone is sufficient. Hence, the issues described above become an unnecessary burden. This work presents a novel qualitative Belief Space Planning (BSP) approach, highly suitable for platforms with low-cost sensors and particularly appealing in sparse environment scenarios. Our algorithm generalizes its predecessors by avoiding any deterministic assumptions. Moreover, it smoothly incorporates spatial information propagation techniques, known as compositions. We demonstrate our algorithm in simulations and the advantage of using compositions in particular.

2022: Hypotheses Disambiguation in Retrospective
Abstract: Robust perception is a key required capability in robotics and AI when dealing with scenarios and environments that exhibit some level of ambiguity and perceptual aliasing. In this work, we consider such a setting and contribute a framework that enables to update probabilities of externally-defined data association hypotheses from some past time with new information that has been accumulated until current time. In particular, we show appropriately updating probabilities of past hypotheses within this smoothing perspective potentially enables to disambiguate these hypotheses even when there is no full disambiguation of the mixture distribution at the current time. Further, we develop an incremental algorithm that re-uses hypotheses' weight calculations from previous steps, thereby reducing computational complexity. In addition, we show how our approach can be used to enhance current-time hypotheses pruning, by discarding corresponding branches in the hypotheses tree. We demonstrate our approach in simulation, considering an extremely aliased environment setting.

2022: Simplified Risk-aware Decision Making with Belief-dependent Rewards in Partially Observable Domains
Abstract: None

2022: A Survey on Active Simultaneous Localization and Mapping: State of the Art and New Frontiers
Abstract: Active simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is the problem of planning and controlling the motion of a robot to build the most accurate and complete model of the surrounding environment. Since the first foundational work in active perception appeared, more than three decades ago, this field has received increasing attention across different scientific communities. This has brought about many different approaches and formulations, and makes a review of the current trends necessary and extremely valuable for both new and experienced researchers. In this article, we survey the state of the art in active SLAM and take an in-depth look at the open challenges that still require attention to meet the needs of modern applications. After providing a historical perspective, we present a unified problem formulation and review the well-established modular solution scheme, which decouples the problem into three stages that identify, select, and execute potential navigation actions. We then analyze alternative approaches, including belief-space planning and deep reinforcement learning techniques, and review related work on multirobot coordination. This article concludes with a discussion of new research directions, addressing reproducible research, active spatial perception, and practical applications, among other topics.

2022: D2A-BSP: Distilled Data Association Belief Space Planning with Performance Guarantees Under Budget Constraints
Abstract: Unresolved data association in ambiguous and perceptually aliased environments leads to multi-modal hypotheses on both the robot's and the environment state. To avoid catastrophic results, when operating in such ambiguous environments, it is crucial to reason about data association within Belief Space Planning (BSP). However, explicitly considering all possible data associations, the number of hypotheses grows exponentially with the planning horizon and determining the optimal action sequence quickly becomes intractable. Moreover, with hard budget constraints where some non-negligible hypotheses must be pruned, achieving performance guarantees is crucial. In this work we present a computationally efficient novel approach that utilizes only a distilled subset of hypotheses to solve BSP problems while reasoning about data association. Furthermore, to provide performance guarantees, we derive error bounds with respect to the optimal solution. We then demonstrate our approach in an extremely aliased environment, where we manage to significantly reduce computation time without compromising on the quality of the solution.

2022: Nonmyopic Distilled Data Association Belief Space Planning Under Budget Constraints
Abstract: Autonomous agents operating in perceptually aliased environments should ideally be able to solve the data association problem. Yet, planning for future actions while considering this problem is not trivial. State of the art approaches therefore use multi-modal hypotheses to represent the states of the agent and of the environment. However, explicitly considering all possible data associations, the number of hypotheses grows exponentially with the planning horizon. As such, the corresponding Belief Space Planning problem quickly becomes unsolvable. Moreover, under hard computational budget constraints, some non-negligible hypotheses must eventually be pruned in both planning and inference. Nevertheless, the two processes are generally treated separately and the effect of budget constraints in one process over the other was barely studied. We present a computationally efficient method to solve the nonmyopic Belief Space Planning problem while reasoning about data association. Moreover, we rigorously analyze the effects of budget constraints in both inference and planning.

2022: Incorporating Compositions in Qualitative Approaches
Abstract: Qualitative approaches to various tasks, ranging from localization and mapping to active planning, are gaining considerable momentum in recent years. These approaches represent the environment through spatial relationships between small sets of landmarks in independent local coordinate systems. An essential component in these approaches is the composition operator, enabling spatial information propagation between different sets to infer new ones. Integrating compositions within qualitative algorithms brings several difficulties. For instance, if the information required to perform a specific composition operation is unavailable, it must be inferred first, possibly via a preparatory composition operation. This recursive issue becomes more challenging as the amount of information grows. This letter addresses two main questions arising from the above, which remained open: 1. Given an initial set of qualitative spatial relationships, what new ones can be composed? 2. What is the optimal sequence of compositions operations to create a target set among all possible sequences? We provide a theoretical derivation to address the first question and a novel search algorithm to address the second.

2022: Risk Aware Adaptive Belief-dependent Probabilistically Constrained Continuous POMDP Planning
Abstract: Although risk awareness is fundamental to an online operating agent, it has received less attention in the challenging continuous domain and under partial observability. This paper presents a novel formulation and solution for risk-averse belief-dependent probabilistically constrained continuous POMDP. We tackle a demanding setting of belief-dependent reward and constraint operators. The probabilistic confidence parameter makes our formulation genuinely risk-averse and much more flexible than the state-of-the-art chance constraint. Our rigorous analysis shows that in the stiffest probabilistic confidence case, our formulation is very close to chance constraint. However, our probabilistic formulation allows much faster and more accurate adaptive acceptance or pruning of actions fulfilling or violating the constraint. In addition, with an arbitrary confidence parameter, we did not find any analogs to our approach. We present algorithms for the solution of our formulation in continuous domains. We also uplift the chance-constrained approach to continuous environments using importance sampling. Moreover, all our presented algorithms can be used with parametric and nonparametric beliefs represented by particles. Last but not least, we contribute, rigorously analyze and simulate an approximation of chance-constrained continuous POMDP. The simulations demonstrate that our algorithms exhibit unprecedented celerity compared to the baseline, with the same performance in terms of collisions.

2022: Speeding up POMDP Planning via Simplification
Abstract: In this paper, we consider online planning in par-tially observable domains. Solving the corresponding POMDP problem is a very challenging task, particularly in an online setting. Our key contribution is a novel algorithmic approach, Simplified Information Theoretic Belief Space Planning (SITH-BSP), which aims to speed up POMDP planning considering belief-dependent rewards, without compromising the solution's accuracy. We do so by mathematically relating the simplified el-ements of the problem to the corresponding counterparts of the original problem. Specifically, we focus on belief simplification and use it to formulate bounds on the corresponding original belief-dependent rewards. These bounds in turn are used to perform branch pruning over the belief tree, in the process of extracting the optimal policy from this existing belief tree. We further introduce the notion of adaptive simplification, while re-using calculations between different simplification levels, and exploit it to prune, at each level in the belief tree, all branches but one. Therefore, our approach is guaranteed to find the optimal solution (policy) that corresponds to the given belief tree but with substantial speedup. As a second key contribution, we derive novel analytical bounds for differential entropy, considering a sampling-based belief representation, which we believe are of interest on their own. We validate our approach in simulation using these bounds and where simplification corresponds to reducing the number of samples, exhibiting a significant computational speedup while yielding the optimal solution for the given belief tree.

2022: Risk Aware Belief-dependent Constrained POMDP Planning
Abstract: Risk awareness is fundamental to an online operating agent. However, it received less attention in the challenging continuous domain under partial observability. Existing constrained POMDP algorithms are typically designed for discrete state and observation spaces. In addition, current solvers for constrained formulations do not support general belief-dependent constraints. Crucially, in the POMDP setting, risk awareness in the context of a constraint was addressed in a limited way. This paper presents a novel formulation for risk-averse belief-dependent constrained POMDP. Our probabilistic constraint is general and belief-dependent, as is the reward function. The proposed universal framework applies to a continuous domain with nonparametric beliefs represented by particles or parametric beliefs. We show that our formulation better accounts for the risk than previous approaches.

