2024: Shortening the Alzheimer’s disease assessment scale cognitive subscale
Abstract: Abstract Background A short yet reliable cognitive measure is needed that separates treatment and placebo for treatment trials for Alzheimer’s disease. Hence, we aimed to shorten the Alzheimer’s Disease Assessment Scale Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) and test its use as an efficacy measure. Methods Secondary data analysis of participant-level data from five pivotal clinical trials of donepezil compared with placebo for Alzheimer’s disease (N = 2,198). Across all five trials, cognition was appraised using the original 11-item ADAS-Cog. Statistical analysis consisted of sample characterization, item response theory (IRT) to identify an ADAS-Cog short version, and mixed models for repeated-measures analysis to examine the effect sizes of ADAS-Cog change on the original and short versions in the placebo versus donepezil groups. Results Based on IRT, a short ADAS-Cog was developed with seven items and two response options. The original and short ADAS-Cog correlated at baseline and at weeks 12 and 24 at 0.7. Effect sizes based on mixed modeling showed that the short and original ADAS-Cog separated placebo and donepezil comparably (ADAS-Cog original ES = 0.33, 95% CI = 0.29, 0.40, ADAS-Cog short ES = 0.25, 95% CI =0.23, 0.34). Conclusions IRT identified a short ADAS-cog version that separated donepezil and placebo, suggesting its clinical potential for assessment and treatment monitoring.

2024: Tele-medicine controlled hospital at home is associated with better outcomes than hospital stay
Abstract: Background Hospital-at-home (HAH) is increasingly becoming an alternative for in-hospital stay in selected clinical scenarios. Nevertheless, there is still a question whether HAH could be a viable option for acutely ill patients, otherwise hospitalized in departments of general-internal medicine. Methods This was a retrospective matched study, conducted at a telemedicine controlled HAH department, being part of a tertiary medical center. The objective was to compare clinical outcomes of acutely ill patients (both COVID-19 and non-COVID) admitted to either in-hospital or HAH. Non-COVID patients had one of three acute infectious diseases: urinary tract infections (UTI, either lower or upper), pneumonia, or cellulitis. Results The analysis involved 159 HAH patients (64 COVID-19 and 95 non-COVID) who were compared to a matched sample of in-hospital patients (192 COVID-19 and 285 non-COVID). The median length-of-hospital stay (LOS) was 2 days shorter in the HAH for both COVID-19 patients (95% CI: 1–3; p = 0.008) and non-COVID patients (95% CI; 1–3; p < 0.001). The readmission rates within 30 days were not significantly different for both COVID-19 patients (Odds Ratio (OR) = 1; 95% CI: 0.49–2.04; p = 1) and non-COVID patients (OR = 0.7; 95% CI; 0.39–1.28; p = 0.25). The differences remained insignificant within one year. The risk of death within 30 days was significantly lower in the HAH group for COVID-19 patients (OR = 0.34; 95% CI: 0.11–0.86; p = 0.018) and non-COVID patients (OR = 0.38; 95% CI: 0.14–0.9; p = 0.019). For one year survival period, the differences were significant for COVID-19 patients (OR = 0.5; 95% CI: 0.31–0.9; p = 0.044) and insignificant for non-COVID patients (OR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.4–1; p = 0.052). Conclusions Care for acutely ill patients in the setting of telemedicine-based hospital at home has the potential to reduce hospitalization length without increasing readmission risk and to reduce both 30 days and one-year mortality rates.

2024: Planning and adjusting the COVID-19 booster vaccination campaign to reduce disease burden
Abstract: As public health policies shifted in 2023 from emergency response to long-term COVID-19 disease management, immunization programs started to face the challenge of formulating routine booster campaigns in a still highly uncertain seasonal behavior of the COVID-19 epidemic. Mathematical models assessing past booster campaigns and integrating knowledge on waning of immunity can help better inform current and future vaccination programs. Focusing on the first booster campaign in the 2021/2022 winter in France, we used a multi-strain age-stratified transmission model to assess the effectiveness of the observed booster vaccination in controlling the succession of Delta, Omicron BA.1 and BA.2 waves. We explored counterfactual scenarios altering the eligibility criteria and inter-dose delay. Our study showed that the success of the immunization program in curtailing the Omicron BA.1 and BA.2 waves was largely dependent on the inclusion of adults among the eligible groups, and was highly sensitive to the inter-dose delay, which was changed over time. Shortening or prolonging this delay, even by only one month, would have required substantial social distancing interventions to curtail the hospitalization peak. Also, the time window for adjusting the delay was very short. Our findings highlight the importance of readiness and adaptation in the formulation of routine booster campaign in the current level of epidemiological uncertainty.

2023: Rates of Spontaneous Abortion in Israel Before and During the COVID-19 Pandemic
Abstract: This cross-sectional study uses electronic health record data to compare monthly incidence rates of spontaneous abortion in Israel before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.

2023: Silent Abandonment in Contact Centers: Estimating Customer Patience from Uncertain Data
Abstract: In the quest to improve services, companies offer customers the opportunity to interact with agents through contact centers, where the communication is mainly text-based. This has become one of the favorite channels of communication with companies in recent years. However, contact centers face operational challenges, since the measurement of common proxies for customer experience, such as knowledge of whether customers have abandoned the queue and their willingness to wait for service (patience), are subject to information uncertainty. We focus this research on the impact of a main source of such uncertainty: silent abandonment by customers. These customers leave the system while waiting for a reply to their inquiry, but give no indication of doing so, such as closing the mobile app of the interaction. As a result, the system is unaware that they have left and waste agent time and capacity until this fact is realized. In this paper, we show that 30%-67% of the abandoning customers abandon the system silently, and that such customer behavior reduces system efficiency by 5%-15%. To do so, we develop methodologies to identify silent-abandonment customers in two types of contact centers: chat and messaging systems. We first use text analysis and an SVM model to estimate the actual abandonment level. We then use a parametric estimator and develop an expectation-maximization algorithm to estimate customer patience accurately, as customer patience is an important parameter for fitting queueing models to the data. We show how accounting for silent abandonment in a queueing model improves dramatically the estimation accuracy of key measures of performance. Finally, we suggest strategies to operationally cope with the phenomenon of silent abandonment.

2023: Kernel machines with missing covariates
Abstract: None

2023: An Examination of Reverse Causation in the Association between Serum Folate Deficiency and Dementia
Abstract: Evidence suggests that serum folate deficiency increases the likelihood of deficits in cognitive performance and neurological functioning. This situates serum folate as a possible biomarker positioned to modify the risk of dementia. However, the few observational studies that have examined the association between serum folate deficiency and the risk of dementia have shown inconsistent results. Prior studies of the associations between serum concentrations of folate and the risks of incident dementia have been unable to directly exclude the possibility that such associations are a by‐product of reverse causation. Reverse causation has been demonstrated to be particularly relevant to studies of dementia, because the neuropathological processes of dementia may start decades before a formal diagnosis is given. Thus, plausibly, serum folate deficiency is a consequence of preclinical dementia rather than its cause.

2023: Unknown treatment effects of donepezil in Alzheimer’s disease: Network analysis of three double‐blind randomized, placebo‐controlled, clinical trials
Abstract: Psychometric network analysis is an alternative theoretically‐driven analytic approach that has the potential to conceptualize cognitive impairment in Alzheimer’s disease differently than was previously assumed and consequently detect unknown treatment effects.

2022: Early- and subsequent- response of cognitive functioning in Alzheimer's disease: Individual-participant data from five pivotal randomized clinical trials of donepezil.
Abstract: None

2022: Increased incident rates of antidepressant use during the COVID-19 pandemic: interrupted time-series analysis of a nationally representative sample
Abstract: Abstract Background The COVID-19 pandemic has been associated with increased levels of depression and anxiety with implications for the use of antidepressant medications. Methods The incident rate of antidepressant fills before and during the COVID-19 pandemic were compared using interrupted time-series analysis followed by comprehensive sensitivity analyses on data derived from electronic medical records from a large health management organization providing nationwide services to 14% of the Israeli population. The dataset covered the period from 1 January 2013 to 1 February 2021, with 1 March 2020 onwards defined as the period of the COVID-19 pandemic. Forecasting analysis was implemented to test the effect of the vaccine roll-out and easing of social restrictions on antidepressant use. Results The sample consisted of 852 233 persons with a total antidepressant incident fill count of 139 535.4 (total cumulative rate per 100 000 = 16 372.91, 95% CI 16 287.19–16 459.01). We calculated the proportion of antidepressant prescription fills for the COVID-19 period, and the counterfactual proportion for the same period, assuming COVID-19 had not occurred. The difference in these proportions was significant [Cohen's h = 10−3 (0.16), 95% CI 10−3 ( − 0.71 to 1.03)]. The pandemic was associated with a significant increase in the slope of the incident rate of antidepressant fills (slope change = 0.01, 95% CI 0.00–0.03; p = 0.04) and a monthly increase of 2% compared to the counterfactual (the estimated rate assuming no pandemic occurred). The increased rate was more pronounced in women, and was not modified by lockdown on/off periods, socioeconomic or SARS-CoV-2 status. The rate of observed antidepressant fills was similar to that forecasted under the assumption of ongoing COVID-19 distress. Conclusion These findings underscore the toll of the pandemic on mental health and inform mental health policy and service delivery during and after implementing COVID-19 attenuation strategies.

2022: Self‐reporting and screening: Data with right‐censored, left‐censored, and complete observations
Abstract: We consider survival data that combine three types of observations: uncensored, right‐censored, and left‐censored. Such data arises from screening a medical condition, in situations where self‐detection arises naturally. Our goal is to estimate the failure‐time distribution, based on these three observation types. We propose a novel methodology for distribution estimation using both semiparametric and nonparametric techniques. We then evaluate the performance of these estimators via simulated data. Finally, as a case study, we estimate the patience of patients who arrive at an emergency department and wait for treatment. Three categories of patients are observed: those who leave the system and announce it, and thus their patience time is observed; those who get service and thus their patience time is right‐censored by the waiting time; and those who leave the system without announcing it. For this third category, the patients' absence is revealed only when they are called to service, which is after they have already left; formally, their patience time is left‐censored. Other applications of our proposed methodology are discussed.

2022: Serum folate deficiency and the risks of dementia and all-cause mortality: a national study of old age
Abstract: Background The association between serum folate deficiency and the risk of dementia in old age is unclear, perhaps owing to small sample sizes, the competing risk of mortality or reverse causation. Objective To examine the associations between serum folate deficiency and the risks of incident dementia and all-cause mortality in a large national sample of older adults. Methods A prospective cohort aged 60–75 years (n=27 188) without pre-existing dementia for at least 10 years, was tested for serum concentrations of folate and followed up for dementia or all-cause mortality. Serum folate deficiency was classified as present (<4.4 ng/mL), otherwise absent. HRs and 95% CIs from competing risks Cox models were fitted to quantify the associations between serum folate deficiency and the risks of dementia and all-cause mortality. To examine reverse causation, the analysis was stratified by duration of follow-up. Findings The presence compared with the absence of serum folate deficiency was associated with higher risks of dementia (HR=1.68; 95% CI 1.32 to 2.13; p<0.001) and all-cause mortality (HR=2.98; 95% CI 2.52 to 3.52; p<0.001). Evidence for reverse causation were moderate for dementia and mild for all-cause mortality. Conclusions Serum concentrations of folate may function as a biomarker used to identify those at risk of dementia and mortality; however, reverse causation is likely. Further research is needed to examine the role of serum folate deficiency in dementia aetiology. Clinical implications Serum folate deficiency in older adults requires monitoring and treatment for preventative measures and/or as part of implemented therapeutic strategies.

2022: Biopsychosocial exposure to the COVID-19 pandemic and the relative risk of schizophrenia: Interrupted time-series analysis of a nationally representative sample
Abstract: Abstract Background Studies of COVID-19 pandemic biopsychosocial exposure and schizophrenia risk showed contradictory results, were undertaken early in the pandemic, and did not consider lockdowns or COVID-19 infection. Hence, we examined the association between COVID-19 biopsychosocial exposure and incident schizophrenia. Methods An interrupted time-series study design was implemented based on Israeli electronic health records from 2013 to 2021 with national coverage. The period coinciding with the COVID-19 pandemic biopsychosocial exposures from March 2020 to February 2021 was classified as exposed, otherwise unexposed. The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on incident schizophrenia was quantified by fitting a Poisson regression and modeling the relative risk (RR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI). Three scenarios were projected from the third lockdown to 10 months to forecast incident schizophrenia rates and their associated 95% prediction intervals (PI). Results The total population (N = 736,356) yielded 4,310 cases of incident schizophrenia over time. The primary analysis showed that the period exposed to the COVID-19 pandemic was associated with a reduced RR (RR = 0.81, 95% CI = 0.73, 0.91, p < 0.001). This conclusion was supported in 12 sensitivity analyses, including scrutinizing lockdowns and COVID-19 infection status. Two of three forecast scenarios projected an incident increase (6.74, 95% PI = 5.80, 7.84; 7.40, 95% PI = 6.36, 8.60). Conclusions The reduced risk of schizophrenia during the pandemic suggests no immediate triggering of new onsets either by the virus or the pandemic-induced psychosocial adversities. Once restrictions are lifted, the increased projected presentations have implications for clinicians and healthcare policy.

2022: A zero-estimator approach for estimating the signal level in a high-dimensional model-free setting
Abstract: None

2022: The number needed to treat adjusted for explanatory variables in regression and survival analysis: Theory and application
Abstract: The number needed to treat (NNT) is an efficacy index commonly used in randomized clinical trials. The NNT is the average number of treated patients for each undesirable patient outcome, for example, death, prevented by the treatment. We introduce a systematic theoretically‐based framework to model and estimate the conditional and the harmonic mean NNT in the presence of explanatory variables, in various models with dichotomous and nondichotomous outcomes. The conditional NNT is illustrated in a series of four primary examples; logistic regression, linear regression, Kaplan‐Meier estimation, and Cox regression models. Also, we establish and prove mathematically the exact relationship between the conditional and the harmonic mean NNT in the presence of explanatory variables. We introduce four different methods to calculate asymptotically‐correct confidence intervals for both indices. Finally, we implemented a simulation study to provide numerical demonstrations of the aforementioned theoretical results and the four examples. Numerical analysis showed that the parametric estimators of the NNT with nonparametric bootstrap‐based confidence intervals outperformed other examined combinations in most settings. An R package and a web application have been developed and made available online to calculate the conditional and the harmonic mean NNTs with their corresponding confidence intervals.

2022: Effect size quantification for interrupted time series analysis: implementation in R and analysis for Covid-19 research
Abstract: None

2022: Cognitive impairment networks in Alzheimer's disease: Analysis of three double-blind randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trials of donepezil
Abstract: None

2022: Can administrative data replace patient survey data in the monitoring of waiting time for community-based specialist care?
Abstract: None

2021: Late‐onset schizophrenia and the competing risks of dementia and death: A national cohort study
Abstract: Knowledge is limited regarding the association between very‐late onset schizophrenia and the risks of risks of death and dementia. We aimed examine the associations between very‐late onset schizophrenia and the risks of death and dementia.

2021: Improved estimators for semi-supervised high-dimensional regression model
Abstract: We study a linear high-dimensional regression model in a semi-supervised setting, where for many observations only the vector of covariates $X$ is given with no response $Y$. We do not make any sparsity assumptions on the vector of coefficients, and aim at estimating $\mathrm{Var}(Y|X)$. We propose an estimator, which is unbiased, consistent, and asymptotically normal. This estimator can be improved by adding zero-estimators arising from the unlabelled data. Adding zero-estimators does not affect the bias and potentially can reduce variance. In order to achieve optimal improvement, many zero-estimators should be used, but this raises the problem of estimating many parameters. Therefore, we introduce covariate selection algorithms that identify which zero-estimators should be used in order to improve the above estimator. We further illustrate our approach for other estimators, and present an algorithm that improves estimation for any given variance estimator. Our theoretical results are demonstrated in a simulation study.

