Recent papers for Yaish Yuval:

2022: Theoretical modelling of arch-shaped carbon nanotube resonators exhibiting Euler–Bernoulli snap-through bi-stability
Abstract: None

2022: DC Signature of Snap-through Bistability in Carbon Nanotube Mechanical Resonators
Abstract: Bistable arched beams exhibiting Euler-Bernoulli snap-through buckling are widely investigated as promising candidates for various potential applications, such as memory devices, energy harvesters, sensors, and actuators. Recently, we reported the realization of a buckled suspended carbon nanotube (CNT) based bistable resonator, which exhibits a unique three-dimensional snap-through transition and an extremely large change in frequency as a result. In this article, we address a unique characteristic of these devices in which a significant change in the DC conductance is also observed at the mechanical snap-through transition. Through the analysis of this phenomenon, we arrive at several important conclusions: we find that the common approach to determining CNT vibrational resonance amplitude is inaccurate; we find evidence that latching phenomena should be easily realizable, relevant for RF switches and nonvolatile memory devices. Finally, we present evidence for possible inner shell sliding, which is relevant for understanding interlayer coupling and moiré pattern research.

2022: The observation of π-shifts in the Little-Parks effect in 4Hb-TaS2
Abstract: None

2021: PN junction and band to band tunneling in carbon nanotube transistors at room temperature
Abstract: We demonstrate band to band tunneling (BTBT) in a carbon nanotube (CNT) field effect transistor. We employ local electrostatic doping assisted by charged traps within the oxide to produce an intramolecular PN junction along the CNT. These characteristics apply for both metallic (m-CNTs) and semiconducting (SC-CNTs) CNTs. For m-CNTs we present a hysteretic transfer characteristic which originates from local electrostatic doping in the middle segment of the CNT. This controlled doping is reversible and results in formation and destruction of a PN junction along the CNT channel. For SC-CNTs we observe BTBT, and analysis based on the WKB approximation reveals a very narrow depletion region and high transmission probability at the optimal energy bands overlap. These results may assist in developing a non-volatile one-dimensional PN junction memory cell and designing a tunneling based field effect transistor.

2021: Dynamics of light-induced charge transfer between carbon nanotube and CdSe/CdS core/shell nanocrystals
Abstract: The integration of semiconducting colloidal nanocrystals (NCs) with carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in a single device presents a unique platform that combines optical flexibility with high charge carrying capability. These qualities are desirable in many applications such as photovoltaic cells, photocatalysis, and light sensors. Here, we present hybrid devices that incorporate various CdSe/CdS core/shell NCs, such as seeded quantum dots and asymmetric seeded nanorods (a-sNRs), with a single-wall CNT in a field-effect transistor geometry. We used electrical measurements to probe a light-induced charge transfer (LICT) between the CdSe/CdS NCs and the CNT. We investigate the effect of gate voltage on the LICT magnitude and temporal characteristics. Surprisingly, the measured photo-response depends on the gate voltage, and we observe both electrons and holes transfer from the a-sNRs to the CNT. Furthermore, a comparison between LICT measurements on different devices with different CNTs and NC types reveals that the charge transfer time is directly proportional to the shell-thickness around the CdSe core and inversely correlated with the NCs size. The recovery of the charge trapped inside the CdSe/CdS NCs is characterized by two distinct fast and slow relaxation times, which depend on the NCs size and CNT type. Although, the charge relaxation time is similar between the symmetric QDs and the asymmetric sNRs, the overall percentage of the remaining charge in the QDs is significantly larger than in the sNRs. Understanding both gate voltage and NCs size effect on the LICT processes can optimize the performance of optoelectronic devices.

2021: Mode coupling bi-stability and spectral broadening in buckled carbon nanotube mechanical resonators
Abstract: None

2019: Snap-Through Buckling Bi-Stability in Suspended Carbon Nanotube Resonators
Abstract: None

2018: Stress-Induced Resistive Switching in Pt/HfO2/Ti Devices
Abstract: None

2018: Automated circuit fabrication and direct characterization of carbon nanotubes vibrations - Optical imaging of CNTs
Abstract: None

2018: Non-volatile memory and negative photoconductivity in a metal-insulator-semiconductor diode with embedded Co nanoparticles
Abstract: We describe a new metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) device in which cobalt based nano particles (NPs) in a core-shell structure (Co–core and Co3O4-shell) are embedded between a thermally grown SiO2 layer and a HfO2 film deposited by atomic layer deposition. Two additional structures were prepared for comparison. One had no NPs and the other included the Fe NPs, prepared using the same procedure as used for the Co film. All devices exhibited the classic behavior of a voltage variable MIS capacitor with or without a large hysteresis as in non-volatile memory (NVM) systems. However, only the device with the Co core-shell structure exhibits a negative photoconductivity (NPC) effect as well as NVM capabilities in both the capacitance-voltage (C-V) and current-voltage (I-V) characteristics. The dependence of C-V and current voltage I-V characteristics on illumination intensity and wavelength (from ultraviolet to near infrared) as well as on temperature was characterized. Illumination enhances the NPC effect as well as the flat-band voltage shift determined from C-V characteristics and hence the memory width. Illumination in the wavelength range of 735–780 nm caused a current decrease, at a given voltage, by up to a factor of two. The NPC effect stimulates an annihilation of the stored charges and therefore erases the system instantly at a small applied bias. The main cause of the NPC effect under illumination is the photo excitation of supplementary trap channels in the Co3O4 shell, which lowers the free carrier density and hence the conductivity of the MIS structure.We describe a new metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) device in which cobalt based nano particles (NPs) in a core-shell structure (Co–core and Co3O4-shell) are embedded between a thermally grown SiO2 layer and a HfO2 film deposited by atomic layer deposition. Two additional structures were prepared for comparison. One had no NPs and the other included the Fe NPs, prepared using the same procedure as used for the Co film. All devices exhibited the classic behavior of a voltage variable MIS capacitor with or without a large hysteresis as in non-volatile memory (NVM) systems. However, only the device with the Co core-shell structure exhibits a negative photoconductivity (NPC) effect as well as NVM capabilities in both the capacitance-voltage (C-V) and current-voltage (I-V) characteristics. The dependence of C-V and current voltage I-V characteristics on illumination intensity and wavelength (from ultraviolet to near infrared) as well as on temperature was characterized. Illumination enhances the NPC effect a...

2018: Multicolor Spectral-Specific Silicon Nanodetectors based on Molecularly Embedded Nanowires.
Abstract: Silicon-based photodetectors cannot distinguish between different wavelengths. Therefore, these detectors relay on color-specific filters to achieve color separation. Color filters add complexity to color sensitive device fabrication, and hinder miniaturization of such devices. Here, we report an ultrasmall (as small as ∼20 nm by 300 nm), red-green-blue-violet (RGBV) filter-free spectrally gated field effect transistor (SGFET) detectors. These photodetectors are based on organic-silicon nanowire hybrid FET devices, capable of detecting specific visible wavelength spectrum with full width at half-maxima (fwhm) under 100 nm. Each SGFET is controlled by a distinctive RGBV spectral range, according to its specific organic fluorophore functionalization. The spectral-specific RGBV detection is accomplished via covalent attachment of different fluorophores. The fluorophore molecules inject electrons into the nanowire structure as a result of light absorption at the appropriate RGBV spectral range. These photoinduced electrons modify the occupancies of the oxide's surface states, shifting the device threshold voltage, thus changing its conductivity, and functioning as a negative stress bias in a p-type SiNW FETs. A positive biasing can be achieved via UV light-induced ionization, which leads to detrapping and translocation of electrons at the oxide layer. Furthermore, a novel theoretical model on the mechanism of action of these devices was developed. Also, we show that suspended SGFETs can function as nonvolatile memory elements, which unlike fast-relaxing on-surface SGFETs, can store discrete "on" (RGBV illumination) and "off" (UV illumination) states for several days at ambient conditions. We also demonstrate a unique single-nanowire multicolor photodetector, enabling in principle a broad spectral detection over a single silicon nanowire element. These highly compact, spectral-controlled nanodevices have the potential to serve in various future novel optoelectric applications.

2016: Self aligned hysteresis free carbon nanotube field-effect transistors
Abstract: Hysteresis phenomenon in the transfer characteristics of carbon nanotube field effect transistor (CNT FET) is being considered as the main obstacle for successful realization of electronic devices based on CNTs. In this study, we prepare four kinds of CNTFETs and explore their hysteretic behavior. Two kinds of devices comprise on-surface CNTs (type I) and suspended CNTs (type II) with thin insulating layer underneath and a single global gate which modulates the CNT conductance. The third and fourth types (types III and IV) consist of suspended CNT over a metallic local gate underneath, where for type IV the local gate was patterned self aligned with the source and drain electrodes. The first two types of devices, i.e., type I and II, exhibit substantial hysteresis which increases with scanning range and sweeping time. Under high vacuum conditions and moderate electric fields ( |E|>4×106 V/cm), the hysteresis for on-surface devices cannot be eliminated, as opposed to suspended devices. Interestingly, type ...

2016: Kinetics modeling of nanoparticle growth on and evaporation off nanotubes
Abstract: A kinetic Monte Carlo approach is developed for studying growth and evaporation of nanoparticles on/off nanotubes. This study has been motivated by the recent experimental advances in using nanoparticle evaporation (sublimation) off nanoparticle-decorated nanotubes for nanoscale “thermometry.” We demonstrate that the considered kinetic Monte Carlo approach can reproduce features of the process that are not included in the phenomenological thermodynamic modeling, as well as provide snapshots of the growth and evaporation process morphology.

2016: Automated circuit fabrication and direct characterization of carbon nanotube vibrations
Abstract: None

2016: Stress Induced Vacancy Clustering Mechanism of Resistive Switching in Hafnium Oxides
Abstract: Reversible changes in the conductivity of HfO_2 dielectric film between high and low resistive states of a metal-insulator-metal memory cell were attributed to the formation of oxygen vacancies and their clustering across the insulator layer. In this study we present an innovative model which includes generation of two-charged states of oxygen vacancies at the anode, their diffusion to the cathode, transformation to one-charged state, and then to neutral vacancies. Vacancy clusters in the insulator layer are built from only neutral vacancies, while the kinetics of the clustering process is controlled by diffusion of mobile one-charged state vacancies. Resistive switching is treated as the formation of critical size vacancy cluster which provides continuous conductive path through the dielectric layer. Good agreement between the experimental data and the theoretical bias and temperature dependences for the delay time was obtained.

2015: Visualization of electronic density
Abstract: None

2015: Three-point bending analysis of doubly clamped silicon nanowire beams; Young's modulus, initial stress, and crystal orientation
Abstract: A non-linear model is introduced describing the force-deflection relation of doubly clamped beams, including initial stress. Several approximations for the exact model are developed and compared, revealing the importance of considering the initial stress during 3-point bending measurements analysis. A novel approximation is found to be better than others, and both the exact model and this approximation are in perfect agreement with finite element simulations. A brief experimental example of silicon nanowires is presented in which the Young's modulus, the initial stress, and the crystallographic growth orientation are extracted by 3-point bending analysis.

2015: Young's Modulus, Residual Stress, and Crystal Orientation of Doubly Clamped Silicon Nanowire Beams.
Abstract: Initial or residual stress plays an important role in nanoelectronics. Valley degeneracy in silicon nanowires (SiNWs) is partially lifted due to built-in stresses, and consequently, electron-phonon scattering rate is reduced and device mobility and performance are improved. In this study we use a nonlinear model describing the force-deflection relationship to extract the Young's modulus, the residual stress, and the crystallographic growth orientation of SiNW beams. Measurements were performed on suspended doubly clamped SiNWs subjected to atomic force microscopy (AFM) three-point bending constraints. The nanowires comprised different growth directions and two SiO2 sheath thicknesses, and underwent different rapid thermal annealing processes. Analysis showed that rapid thermal annealing introduces compressive strains into the SiNWs and may result in buckling of the SiNWs. Furthermore, the core-shell model together with the residual stress analysis accurately describe the Young's modulus of oxide covered SiNWs and the crystal orientation of the measured nanowires.

2015: Visualization of electronic density of nanotube with AViz
Abstract: The spatial volume occupied by an atom depends on its electronic density. Although this density can only be evaluated exactly for hydrogen-like atoms, there are many excellent algorithms and packages to calculate it numerically for other materials. Three-dimensional visualization of charge density is challenging, especially when several molecular/atomic levels are intertwined in space. In a recent project, we explored one approach to this: the extension of an analglyphic stereo visualization application based on the AViz package for hydrogen atoms and simple molecules to larger structures such as nanotubes. I will describe these techniques and demonstrate the use of analyglyphic stereo in AViz, [1, 2]. The use of AViz dot-mode visualization for electronic density was first developed in an undergraduate project about the hydrogen atom[3]. We then visualized the electronic density resulting from simulations of larger molecules and solids in the same way. Further studies [4] used a density functional theory approach to examine the electronic densities of simple molecules where there is no analytic solution. The next stage in our visualization development was to move to 3D stereo. Stereo Vision (SV) works by showing a different image to each eye, thus creating the illusion of a 3D image. AViz 6.1 [1, 5] incorporated the possibility of SV, and althoughmore than two colors are possible there remains some color washout, depending on color selection. The SV images generated by AViz, are best viewed using red-cyan anaglyphic glasses. An example of a simple stereo nanotube atomistic visualiztion is given in Figure 1. Stereo Visualization was applied to the electronic density of the hydrogen atom by Meital Kreif in [6]. The width of a nanotube wall is an essential parameter in order to scale up atomistic simulations into continuum models. In order to measure this, one needs to calculate the electronic density. For this calculation we selected the public domain code Quantum Espresso (QE) plane-wave DFT code [7] which has clear documentation of their format for the charge density. We chose the Figure 1: SV of nanotube.

2014: Origin of Hysteresis in Carbon Nanotube Field-Effect Transistors
Abstract: Carbon nanotube field effect transistors (CNT FETs) have many possible applications in future nano-electronics due to their excellent electrical properties. However, one of the major challenges regarding their performance is the noticeable gate hysteresis which is often displayed in their transfer characteristics. The hysteresis phenomenon is often attributed to water-mediated charge transfer between the CNT and the dielectric layer or the CNT and the water layer itself. In this study, we implement three different experimental techniques and provide evidence that the hysteresis phenomenon of suspended CNT FETs, as well as of on-surface CNT FETs which operate at low gate voltage regimes ( g V V 3 ), is based on gate-induced, water-assisted redistribution of mobile charge on the SiO2 surface, and it is not related to charge injection from the CNT itself. Two techniques are based on the current measurements through the CNT and the third utilizes electrostatic force microscopy (EFM) setup. In addition, the applied external gate voltage affect the relaxation time of the current. This change arises from the modification of the amount of water layers which adsorb onto the dielectric surface, which caused by dielectrophoresis attraction between the water molecules and the substrate. It is found that the relaxation time, and hence the surface conductivity, are very sensitive for the first few layers, and saturates above three monolayers of water molecules. INTRODUCTION Carbon nanotube field effect transistors (CNT FETs) possess excellent electrical properties which make them promising candidate for future electronics. Their high sensitivity to various analytes have been the subject of many studies, which are mainly focused on device applications. Yet, several unresolved issues need to be clarified before further successful utilization of these devices can take place. One of these issues is the noticeable gate hysteresis that CNT FETs usually exhibit in their transfer characteristics. This phenomenon has previously been explained by several different models [1-6]. Currently, the common belief is that gate hysteresis is been attributed to stationary charge traps within the dielectric, which are filled and emptied by the applied gate voltage with charge transfer to and from the CNT itself [7-11]. These findings suggest that CNTs behave as leaky FETs where charges can flow back and forth between the CNT and the surface, and that the total tube charge is changing with time. The hysteresis phenomenon was observed for suspended CNTs as well [12], and it has been shown that water molecules give a large contribution to the hysteresis. Therefore, it has been suggested that the hysteresis is due to a water layer which is bound to the surface of the CNT, and behaves as charge trap or mediator [12-14]. A simple model for this behavior which assumes linear relation between the depleted charges and the total current, is based on an RC circuit where the tube is presented by a leaky capacitor with resistance R [15]. In this paper, we introduce RC model as well, but invoke that for suspended CNT FETs, as well as for on-surface CNT FETs which operate at low gate potentials ( g V V 3 ), the resistances as well as the capacitive elements arise mainly from the oxide itself and not from leakage current to or from the CNT. In 2002, Bradley et al. [16] have controllably introduced hysteresis by coating CNT FETs with charged polymers, and proposed that the effect results from ionic motion. Below we present an extensive study of hysteresis in suspended CNTs, and argue that mobile charges are indeed relevant. Using a method to calculate the hysteresis accurate time constants, we provide experimental evidence that the hysteresis is caused by water assisted movement of mobile charges on the SiO2 surface. This movement, which aims to bring the system to a lower energetic configuration, is a direct result of the gate bias. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the above-mentioned mechanism underlies the hysteresis phenomenon in on-surface CNT FETs as well for low gate operational biases. Our model is examined using a technique which implements the usage of electrostatic force microscopy (EFM) to gain quantitative information on the substrate lateral and temporal charge distribution, CNT currents, and hysteresis time constants, and the results support our hypothesis. Moreover, a dependence of the hysteresis time constants on the applied external gates is found and is attributed to the modification of the surface humidity with electric field. This allows us to detect the amount of water layers with single monolayer sensitivity. EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS Suspended CNT FETs were fabricated using a growth at-the-end method [17, 18] in order to avoid any additional sources for the hysteretic phenomenon from residual process contamination. The processing was performed on 1 μm/500 nm SiO2 thermally grown on highly p-doped silicon substrate, using photolithography techniques. First, source and drain were patterned with 5/40 nm chrome/platinum electrodes, with gaps of 1.3/1.8 μm between source and drain. Next, the devices were submerged in 1:6 buffer oxide etch (BOE) for two minutes in order to etch trenches of about 200 nm deep between each electrodes pair. Finally, iron nanoparticles were deposited at specific places on top of the electrodes, and the CNTs were grown by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) with methane/hydrogen gas mixture at 900C. This technique yields extremely clean devices, since the CNT growth is performed at the last step of the process, and all resist residues are burned and disposed of in the CVD process. In order to create on-surface CNT FETs, suspended devices were submerged in deionized water for a couple of seconds and then allowed to dry in ambient air for several hours. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION When suspended CNT FETs were exposed to an ambient environment, hysteresis was observed in the current (Ids) versus gate voltage (Vg) characteristics when Vg was swept between 3 V to 3 V [19]. The hysteresis was advancing in nature, and its width (which is defined as the difference in the threshold gate voltages between the down and the up sweep directions) exhibited a strong dependence on ambient humidity, as was previously reported [13, 20]. The hysteresis width has also exhibited exponential time dependence on the scanning time of a single sweep period with time constant of τ = 38 ± 4.2 sec (see Fig. 1a). This dependence, which is in agreement with earlier observations of hysteresis in CNT FETs [16], suggests that the hysteresis is caused by slow moving species carrying charge. Based on this evidence, we implemented the usage of a more accurate measurement aimed to extract the time constants of the hysteresis effect. As shown in Fig. 1b, we measured Ids as a function of time while applying a series of gate voltages: 0 V -3 V 0 V 3 V 0 V. This series of values repeated itself several times. Two main findings were observed: a) the data can be divided to two pairs of gate voltages, Vg = 0 V, 3 V (V g = -3 V, 0 V), on which the current shows a rapid decrease (increase) followed by a slow recovery (decay); b) after a long time on which the gate voltage was kept constant the currents for all the gate voltages tended to the same value. Moreover, for each value of Vg that was kept constant for a fixed period of time, Ids had converged back to its initial value exponentially. The time constants of Ids for each value of Vg were extracted by fitting the data to an exponential function (see inset of Fig. 1b), and an average time constant of τav = 35.3 ± 8.5 sec was found. This τav agrees reasonably well with the time constant which was extracted from Fig. 1a, with a relative error of 8.4%. This result suggests that sweeping the gate voltage with different speeds, or measuring the current versus time for a fixed gate voltage probe the same hysteresis phenomenon, and we will utilize both methods in order to clarify the origin for it. In order to find whether suspended and on-surface CNT FETs exhibit similar hysteretic and time constants behavior, we examined the hysteresis phenomena of the same suspended and onsurface CNT FET. From Ids-time measurements an average τav = 19.5 ± 6.3 sec was found for a typical suspended device according to the method discussed before. Afterwards, the same device was submerged in deionized water in order to make the CNT adhere to the surface (as was verified by AFM), was dried for several hours, and the hysteresis was examined again. This time an average τav = 19.07 ± 5.3 sec was deduced. The Ids reduced roughly by third after the CNT touched the surface, and the device became somewhat noisier; however, the hysteretic characteristics did not change and the time constants remained nearly the same, with a relative error of 2.2%. The same behavior was found for other 5 tubes as well. These results suggest that the same mechanism underlies the hysteresis phenomenon in both types of CNT FETs for small Vg sweep ranges. Figure 1. (Color online) (a) The hysteresis width of a suspended CNT exhibiting an exponential dependence on the gate scanning time with time constant τ = 38 ± 4.2 s. Vg is swept between − 3 and 3 V, and Vds = 10 mV. Error bars are smaller than the markers. (b) Ids (blue) as a function of time for the same CNT as in (a) while applying a series of gate voltages: 0, − 3, 0, 3, and 0 V. This series repeats itself three times (green). Inset: zoom-in into single current decay curve, Ids-time, following compliance of Vg = − 3 V and exponential fit (red) to it. Next, we conducted a series of control experiments in order to unveil the mechanism that is responsible for the hysteresis in these CNTs [19]. Exposing the CNTs to different atmospheres may hint which ingredients in air are essential for the hysteresis phenomenon. The hysteresis disappeared almost entirely upon changing the environment from ambient air to vacuum. Also,

