Recent papers for Yakov Babichenko:

2024: Persuading while Learning
Abstract: We propose a dynamic product adoption persuasion model involving an impatient partially informed sender who gradually learns the state. In this model, the sender gathers information over time, and hence her posteriors' sequence forms a discrete-time martingale. The sender commits to a dynamic revelation policy to persuade the agent to adopt a product. We demonstrate that under the assumption that the sender's martingale possesses Blackwell-preserving kernels, the family of optimal strategies for the sender takes an interval form; namely, in every period the set of martingale realizations in which adoption occurs is an interval. Utilizing this, we prove that if the sender is sufficiently impatient, then under a random walk martingale, the optimal policy is fully transparent up to the moment of adoption; namely, the sender reveals the entire information she privately holds in every period.

2024: Robust Price Discrimination
Abstract: We consider a model of third-degree price discrimination where the seller's product valuation is unknown to the market designer, who aims to maximize buyer surplus by revealing buyer valuation information. Our main result shows that the regret is bounded by a $\frac{1}{e}$-fraction of the optimal buyer surplus when the seller has zero valuation for the product. This bound is attained by randomly drawing a seller valuation and applying the segmentation of Bergemann et al. (2015) with respect to the drawn valuation. We show that this bound is tight in the case of binary buyer valuation.

2023: Fair Division via Quantile Shares
Abstract: We consider the problem of fair division, where a set of indivisible goods should be distributed fairly among a set of agents with combinatorial valuations. To capture fairness, we adopt the notion of shares, where each agent is entitled to a fair share, based on some fairness criterion, and an allocation is considered fair if the value of every agent (weakly) exceeds her fair share. A share-based notion is considered universally feasible if it admits a fair allocation for every profile of monotone valuations. A major question arises: is there a non-trivial share-based notion that is universally feasible? The most well-known share-based notions, namely the proportional share and the maximin share, are not universally feasible, nor are any constant approximations of them. We propose a novel share notion, where an agent assesses the fairness of a bundle by comparing it to her valuation in a random allocation. In this framework, a bundle is considered q-quantile fair, for q∈[0,1], if it is at least as good as a bundle obtained in a uniformly random allocation with probability at least q. Our main question is whether there exists a constant value of q for which the q-quantile share is universally feasible. Our main result establishes a strong connection between the feasibility of quantile shares and the classical Erdős Matching Conjecture. Specifically, we show that if a version of this conjecture is true, then the 1/2e-quantile share is universally feasible. Furthermore, we provide unconditional feasibility results for additive, unit-demand and matroid-rank valuations for constant values of q. Finally, we discuss the implications of our results for other share notions.

2023: A Random Dictator Is All You Need
Abstract: We study information aggregation with a decision-maker aggregating binary recommendations from symmetric agents. Each agent’s recommendation depends on her private information about a hidden state. While the decision-maker knows the prior distribution over states and the marginal distribution of each agent’s recommendation, the recommendations are adversarially correlated. The decision-maker’s goal is choosing a robustly optimal aggregation rule. We prove that for a large number of agents for the three standard robustness paradigms (maximin, regret, and approximation ratio), the unique optimal aggregation rule is “random dictator.” We further characterize the minimal regret for any number of agents through concavification. (JEL D81, D82, D83)

2023: Algorithmic Cheap Talk
Abstract: The literature on strategic communication originated with the influential cheap talk model, which precedes the Bayesian persuasion model by three decades. This model describes an interaction between two agents: sender and receiver. The sender knows some state of the world which the receiver does not know, and tries to influence the receiver's action by communicating a cheap talk message to the receiver. This paper initiates the systematic algorithmic study of cheap talk in a finite environment (i.e., a finite number of states and receiver's possible actions). We first prove that approximating the sender-optimal or the welfare-maximizing cheap talk equilibrium up to a certain additive constant or multiplicative factor is NP-hard. We further prove that deciding whether there exists an equilibrium in which the receiver gets utility higher than the trivial utility he can guarantee is NP-hard. Fortunately, we identify two naturally-restricted cases that admit efficient algorithms for finding a sender-optimal equilibrium - a constant number of states or a receiver having only two actions.

2023: Feasible Conditional Belief Distributions
Abstract: Agents receive private signals about an unknown state. The resulting joint belief distributions are complex and lack a simple characterization. Our key insight is that, when conditioned on the state, the structure of belief distributions simplifies: feasibility constrains only the marginal distributions of individual agents across states, with no joint constraints within a state. We apply this insight to multi-receiver persuasion, identifying new tractable cases and introducing optimal transportation and duality tools.

2023: Universally Robust Information Aggregation for Binary Decisions
Abstract: We study a setting with a decision maker making a binary decision by aggregating information from symmetric agents. Each agent provides the decision maker a recommendation depending on her private signal about the hidden state. We assume that agents are truthful - an agent recommends guessing the more likely state based on her information. This assumption is natural if the agents are unaware of how the decision-maker will aggregate their recommendations. While the decision maker has a prior distribution over the hidden state and knows the marginal distribution of each agent's private signal, the correlation between these signals is chosen adversarially. The decision maker's goal is choosing an information aggregation rule that is robustly optimal.

2022: Information Design in the Principal-Agent Problem
Abstract: We study a variant of the principal-agent problem in which the principal does not directly observe the agent's effort outcome; rather, she gets a signal about the agent's action according to a variable information structure designed by a regulator. We consider both the case of a risk-neutral and of a risk-averse agent, focusing mainly on a setting with a limited liability assumption. We provide a clean characterization for implementability of actions and utility profiles by any information structure, which turns out to be simple thresholds on the utilities. We further study naturally constrained information structures in which the signal emitted from any action is either the action itself or some actions nearby. We show that the worst implementable welfare deteriorates gracefully as the information structure becomes noisier. Finally, we show that our clean characterization does not generalize to a larger class of signaling constraints. In fact, even deciding whether a certain action is implementable by some constrained information structure from this class is NP-complete in the general setting.

2022: A Population's Feasible Posterior Beliefs
Abstract: We consider a population of Bayesian agents who share a common prior over some finite state space and each agent is exposed to some information about the state. We ask which distributions over empirical distributions of posteriors beliefs in the population are feasible. We provide a necessary and sufficient condition for feasibility. We apply this result in several domains. First, we study the problem of maximizing the polarization of beliefs in a population. Second, we provide a characterization of the feasible agent-symmetric product distributions of posteriors. Finally, we study an instance of a private Bayesian persuasion problem and provide a clean formula for the sender's optimal value.

2022: Bayesian Persuasion with Mediators
Abstract: An informed sender communicates with an uninformed receiver through a sequence of uninformed mediators; agents' utilities depend on receiver's action and the state. For any number of mediators, the sender's optimal value is characterized. For one mediator, the characterization has a geometric meaning of constrained concavification of sender's utility, optimal persuasion requires the same number of signals as without mediators, and the presence of the mediator is never profitable for the sender. Surprisingly, the second mediator may improve the value but optimal persuasion may require more signals.

2021: Robust learning in social networks via matrix scaling
Abstract: None

2021: Virtually additive learning
Abstract: None

2021: Feasible joint posterior beliefs (through examples)
Abstract: Through a sequence of examples, we survey the main results of "Feasible Joint Posterior Beliefs" [Arieli, Babichenko, Sandomirskiy, Tamuz 2021]. A group of agents share a common prior distribution regarding a binary state, and observe some information structure. What are the possible joint distributions of their posteriors? We discuss feasibility of product distributions, correlation of posteriors in feasible distributions, extreme feasible distributions and the characterization of feasibility in terms of a "no-trade" condition.

2021: Regret-Minimizing Bayesian Persuasion
Abstract: We study a Bayesian persuasion setting with binary actions (adopt and reject) for Receiver. We examine the following question - how well can Sender perform, in terms of persuading Receiver to adopt, when ignorant of Receiver's utility? We take a robust (adversarial) approach to study this problem; that is, our goal is to design signaling schemes for Sender that perform well for all possible Receiver's utilities. We measure performance of signaling schemes via the notion of (additive) regret: the difference between Sender's hypothetically optimal utility had she known Receiver's utility function and her actual utility induced by the given scheme. On the negative side, we show that if Sender has no knowledge at all about Receiver's utility, then Sender has no signaling scheme that performs robustly well. On the positive side, we show that if Sender only knows Receiver's ordinal preferences of the states of nature - i.e., Receiver's utility upon adoption is monotonic as a function of the state - then Sender can guarantee a surprisingly low regret even when the number of states tends to infinity. In fact, we exactly pin down the minimum regret value that Sender can guarantee in this case, which turns out to be at most 1/e. We further show that such positive results are not possible under the alternative performance measure of a multiplicative approximation ratio by proving that no constant ratio can be guaranteed even for monotonic Receiver's utility; this may serve to demonstrate the merits of regret as a robust performance measure that is not too pessimistic. Finally, we analyze an intermediate setting in between the no-knowledge and the ordinal-knowledge settings.

2021: Multi-Channel Bayesian Persuasion
Abstract: The celebrated Bayesian persuasion model considers strategic communication between an informed agent (the sender) and uninformed decision makers (the receivers). The current rapidly-growing literature mostly assumes a dichotomy: either the sender is powerful enough to communicate separately with each receiver (a.k.a. private persuasion), or she cannot communicate separately at all (a.k.a. public persuasion). We study a model that smoothly interpolates between the two, by considering a natural multi-channel communication structure in which each receiver observes a subset of the sender's communication channels. This captures, e.g., receivers on a network, where information spillover is almost inevitable. We completely characterize when one communication structure is better for the sender than another, in the sense of yielding higher optimal expected utility universally over all prior distributions and utility functions. The characterization is based on a simple pairwise relation among receivers - one receiver information-dominates another if he observes at least the same channels. We prove that a communication structure $M_1$ is (weakly) better than $M_2$ if and only if every information-dominating pair of receivers in $M_1$ is also such in $M_2$. We also provide an additive FPTAS for the optimal sender's signaling scheme when the number of states is constant and the graph of information-dominating pairs is a directed forest. Finally, we prove that finding an optimal signaling scheme under multi-channel persuasion is, generally, computationally harder than under both public and private persuasion.

2020: Identifiable information structures
Abstract: None

2020: Settling the complexity of Nash equilibrium in congestion games
Abstract: We consider (i) the problem of finding a (possibly mixed) Nash equilibrium in congestion games, and (ii) the problem of finding an (exponential precision) fixed point of the gradient descent dynamics of a smooth function f:[0,1]n → ℝ. We prove that these problems are equivalent. Our result holds for various explicit descriptions of f, ranging from (almost general) arithmetic circuits, to degree-5 polynomials. By a very recent result of [Fearnley et al., STOC 2021], this implies that these problems are PPAD ∩ PLS-complete. As a corollary, we also obtain the following equivalence of complexity classes: CCLS = PPAD ⋂ PLS.

2020: Informational bounds on equilibria (a survey)
Abstract: Query complexity and communication complexity of equilibria have been actively studied in the past decade. Recent progress in these fields of informational complexity has led to a quite good understanding of equilibria. This survey summarizes the established results for the three most common solution concepts: Nash equilibria, correlated equilibria, and coarse correlated equilibria. The survey provides a high-level idea of the techniques that are utilized to deduce recently developed lower bounds on Nash equilibria.

2020: Feasible Joint Posterior Beliefs
Abstract: We study the set of possible joint posterior belief distributions of a group of agents who share a common prior regarding a binary state and who observe some information structure. For two agents, we introduce a quantitative version of Aumann’s agreement theorem and show that it is equivalent to a characterization of feasible distributions from a 1995 work by Dawid and colleagues. For any number of agents, we characterize feasible distributions in terms of a “no-trade” condition. We use these characterizations to study information structures with independent posteriors. We also study persuasion problems with multiple receivers, exploring the extreme feasible distributions.

2020: Communication complexity of Nash equilibrium in potential games (extended abstract)
Abstract: We prove communication complexity lower bounds for (possibly mixed) Nash equilibrium in potential games. In particular, we show that finding a Nash equilibrium requires $\text{poly}(N)$ communication in two-player $N\times N$ potential games, and $2^{\text{poly}(n)}$ communication in n-player two-action games. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first results to demonstrate hardness in any model of (possibly mixed) Nash equilibrium in potential games.

