Recent papers for Yale T Herer:

2024: Managing the Balance Between Project Value and Net Present Value Using Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Project managers make decisions weighing financial returns (net present value, NPV) and value creation expected by stakeholders. Often, plans maximizing NPV neglect stakeholder benefits while those focused strictly on value creation may reduce financial viability. This paper puts forth a new stochastic optimization model handling this compromise using a mixed integer program solved with reinforcement learning. The model incorporates uncertain activity durations and considers positive and negative cash flows. Our Monte Carlo control method with $\epsilon $ -greedy policies and timed start actions for activities facilitates the simultaneous maximization of NPV and project value. The resulting efficient frontier delineates various project plans, demonstrating the trade-off between maximizing NPV and project value, providing decision makers with visual analysis to select plans that fit organizational needs. Computational experiments demonstrate superior performance over a mathematical solver limited by the problem’s complexity and a metaheuristic lacking guided online learning. The results help senior management select satisfactory plans that balance financial returns with stakeholder preferences. The methodology contributes a novel tool for quantitatively incorporating value creation alongside financial objectives in project planning.

2023: Shortening the project schedule: solving multimode chance-constrained critical chain buffer management using reinforcement learning
Abstract: None

2023: Balancing Project Schedule, Cost, and Value under Uncertainty: A Reinforcement Learning Approach
Abstract: Industrial projects are plagued by uncertainties, often resulting in both time and cost overruns. This research introduces an innovative approach, employing Reinforcement Learning (RL), to address three distinct project management challenges within a setting of uncertain activity durations. The primary objective is to identify stable baseline schedules. The first challenge encompasses the multimode lean project management problem, wherein the goal is to maximize a project’s value function while adhering to both due date and budget chance constraints. The second challenge involves the chance-constrained critical chain buffer management problem in a multimode context. Here, the aim is to minimize the project delivery date while considering resource constraints and duration-chance constraints. The third challenge revolves around striking a balance between the project value and its net present value (NPV) within a resource-constrained multimode environment. To tackle these three challenges, we devised mathematical programming models, some of which were solved optimally. Additionally, we developed competitive RL-based algorithms and verified their performance against established benchmarks. Our RL algorithms consistently generated schedules that compared favorably with the benchmarks, leading to higher project values and NPVs and shorter schedules while staying within the stakeholders’ risk thresholds. The potential beneficiaries of this research are project managers and decision-makers who can use this approach to generate an efficient frontier of optimal project plans.

2022: Project scheduling in a lean environment to maximize value and minimize overruns
Abstract: None

2022: The continuous delayed distribution problem
Abstract: None

2022: An asymptotic perspective on risk pooling: Limitations and relationship to transshipments
Abstract: Abstract In this article we provide a novel perspective on risk pooling approaches by characterizing and comparing their asymptotic performance, highlighting the conditions under which one approach dominates the other. More specifically, we determine the inventory policy and the expected total costs of systems under physical and information pooling as the number of locations grows. We show that physical pooling dominates information pooling in settings with no additional per-location costs for operating the centralized system. In the presence of such costs, however, information pooling becomes a viable alternative to physical pooling. Through asymptotic analysis, we also address the grouping problem, the division of a given set of non-identical locations into an ordered collection of mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive subsets of predetermined sizes and demonstrate that homogeneous groups, comprising locations with similar demand volatility, achieve a lower expected total cost. Finally, the convergence of the expected total costs and the base stock levels under the two pooling approaches is demonstrated through a simple numerical illustration. Our analysis supports the assertion that it is important to consider not only the individual characteristics of each location in isolation, but also the interactions among them, when designing pooling systems.

2021: Introducing the Shared Micro-Depot Network for Last-Mile Logistics
Abstract: Last-mile logistics is both a source and cause of problems in urban areas, especially problems related to traffic congestion, unsustainable delivery modes, and limited parking availability. In this context, multiple sustainable logistics solutions have been proposed. We focus on micro-depots (MDs), which can function as a consolidation center and a collection-and-delivery point for business-to-consumer (B2C) small parcels. This paper presents a new research idea that extends the existing MD solution by introducing the concept of a shared MD network with parcel lockers. Such networks enable multiple logistics service providers (LSPs) and/or business partners to use an MD while minimizing their individual costs and optimizing the use of urban space. We present case studies of such shared MD networks operating in the cities of Helsinki and Helmond. We provide a framework for auxiliary businesses that can exploit the existing MD structure to offer services to the surrounding population. Finally, we define metrics for evaluating the success of shared MD networks while considering social, environmental and economic objectives. The case studies highlight the complexity of implementing such a solution; it requires stakeholders’ involvement and collaboration. In particular, deciding on the location for a shared MD network is a critical phase, since local authorities have their own regulations, and residents’ preferences are usually different than LSPs’ ones. Nevertheless, if these challenges are overcome, this sustainable last-mile logistics solution has a promising future.

2021: Two‐Phase Newsvendor with Optimally Timed Additional Replenishment: Model, Algorithm, Case Study
Abstract: Recent advancements in Information Technology have provided an opportunity to significantly improve the effectiveness of inventory systems. The use of in‐cycle demand information enables faster reaction to demand fluctuations. In particular, for the newsvendor (NV) system, we exploit the newly available data to perform an additional review (AR) of inventory at an endogenously determined, a priori set time during the sales period, and perform an additional replenishment if necessary. We implemented our innovative model at a market‐leading media group. The results of the initial pilot were dramatic, indicating that the proposed model achieves an increase of 4%–24% in profits compared to the policy before implementation. As a result, the company started following the proposed model for all their printed magazines and observed a significant reduction in operational costs. In a generalized setting, we provide a tractable search‐based optimization algorithm, based on the problem's structural properties, for determining the optimal initial quantity, AR timing, and quantity to restock at that time. Based on these theoretical results, we propose a simple heuristic that can be used for many practical situations including our implementation at Yedioth. Through a computational experiment, we show that our algorithm finds the optimal solution quickly and that the proposed heuristic performs well. We also provide additional insights into the problem—for instance, that our system exhibits properties similar to inventory pooling, provided that the demand rate is large enough.

2019: The Flexible Scheduling Paradigm: The Prototype School
Abstract: The flexible scheduling paradigm (FSP) improves student learning by dynamically redeploying teachers and other pedagogical resources to provide students with customized learning conditions over shorter time periods called ‘mini-terms’ instead of semesters or years. By conceptualizing the school curriculum as a physical map, we customize the routing of students through curriculum using a core curriculum-targeted mastery-based approach. FSP increases deployed teacher effectiveness by making customized mentoring part of teacher’s regular schedules and by deploying teachers to their strengths. We establish a prima facie case for FSP by building comparative simulations of various schools as they are currently run (the Present Schools) and the same schools as they would be run with FSP (the Schools of the Future). Statistical results of the simulations confirmed that using FSP can increase key educational metrics including graduation rates, final course grades, mean grades in core curriculum, average teacher effectiveness, and the quality of teacher deployed expertise.

2017: The two-phase newsvendor problem with optimally-timed additional replenishment
Abstract: Recent advancements in Information Technology have provided an opportunity to signi cantly improve the e ectiveness of inventory systems. The use of in-cycle demand information enables faster reaction to demand uctuations. In particular, for single-period systems such as the newsvendor system, one way to exploit the newly available data is to perform an additional review (AR) of inventory at an endogenously determined, a priori set time during the sales period, and perform an additional replenishment if necessary. We jointly nd the optimal quantity to order before the start of sales, the optimal AR timing, and the optimal quantity to replenish at the time of the AR. Through a computational experiment, we show that our algorithm quickly nds the optimal solution. Using the same computational experiment, we gain additional insight into the problem. ∗dinna@technion.ac.il †yale@technion.ac.il ‡assaf@paymaxs.com

2017: Inventory management under working capital constraints
Abstract: None

2016: Supply chain education: the contribution of gamification
Abstract: Supply Chain Management is taught in many business and Industrial Engineering programs. In this paper we present ourexperience in using gamification in several university courses in this domain. More importantly, we present gamificationdesign principles. In these courses we used the Supply Chain Simulator (SCS)—a new and innovative web based computergaming/simulationapplication. Its goalis to enable studentsto gaina better understanding of supply chain management byproviding a gaming oriented, virtual environment experience, enabling the simulation of a large variety of realistic andpragmatic situations. The instructor can build an unlimited number of scenarios. Students learn how to simultaneouslyconsider diverse supply chain aspects such as costs, ordering policies, transportation modes, capacity, and uncertainty.Advanced students learn how to design and develop supply chain scenarios based on real or imaginary situations. Thistraining approach using simulation has already been used to bring gamification into a number of courses and the students’satisfaction has been consistently positive. Gamification develops students’ analytical abilities in conjunction withproviding tangible experience in handling practical potential challenges in a fun gaming environment. We argue thatgamification tools should be focused on a single domain and allow wide modelling flexibility within this domain.

2015: Optimal ordering for a probabilistic one-time discount
Abstract: None

2015: Teaching supply chain management to industrial engineering students: mixed vs. Pure approaches in simulation based training
Abstract: We investigate two approaches incorporating two types of intragroup interaction (cooperative and competitive) using simulationbased training (SBT) with teams—a pure and a mixed approach—within the supply chain management domain. SBT commonlyrefers to the use of simulation in the context of education. We examine how a combination of these two interaction types wouldwork in situations wherein both are used in succession. Our purpose is to improve teaching and establish better ways to educateindustrial engineering students using SBT. The first hypothesis is that from a pedagogical perspective, it is more effective to use amixed approach for intragroup interaction when using SBT techniques for engineering education than a pure approach. The secondhypothesis is that when using a mixed approach, the order of the two interaction types affects the learning outcomes. The studyexamined the effects of a new advanced SBT computerized simulation environment on two classes of freshman undergraduates inan Industrial Engineering program in a premier technical university. Each student completed four exercises, of which the first andlast were individual tasks and the middle two were done by teams of two students. The students’ performance was statisticallyanalyzed. The results, rendered as guidelines on how to use SBT for team training, indicate that when teaching using SBT, a mixedapproach for intragroup interaction is better than a pure approach. Moreover, if a mixed approach is used, the order is significant.In particular, we found that it is preferable to start with competitive interaction and then move to cooperative interaction. Ourfindings suggest that at the training stage, it is better to train teams using both types of intragroup interaction, starting with acompetitive interaction followed by a cooperative one.

2014: Simulation-Based Education in Supply Chain and Project Management
Abstract: None

2014: A simulation based investigation of inventory management under working capital constraints
Abstract: The objective of inventory management models is to determine effective policies for managing the trade-off between customer satisfaction and the cost of service. These models have become increasingly sophisticated, incorporating many complicating factors that are relevant in practice such as demand uncertainty, finite supplier capacity, and yield losses. Curiously absent from these models are the financial constraints imposed by working capital requirements (WCR). In practice, many firms are self-financing; their ability to replenish their own inventories is directly affected not only by their current inventory levels, but also by their receivables and payables. In this paper, we analyze the materials management practices of a self-financing firm whose replenishment decisions are constrained by cash flows, which are updated periodically following purchases and sales in each period. In particular, we investigate the interaction between the financial and operational parameters as well as the impact of WCR constraints on the long-run average cost.

2014: Matching Supply and Demand: Delayed Two-Phase Distribution at Yedioth Group - Models, Algorithms, and Information Technology
Abstract: This paper details collaboration between the distribution organization within the Yedioth Group, the largest media group in Israel, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts. This collaboration has led to fundamental changes in how Yedioth distributes print magazines and newspapers. In our work, we developed and implemented decision support tools that are based on new models and algorithms, which were enabled through an electronic data interchange system, and in the future will be enabled with a specialized radio-frequency identification technological solution. The underlying concept is to use real-time information about the sales at the retail outlets to enable pooling of inventory in the network. In particular, we leverage this information to implement an additional redistribution period during the week, delaying the distribution of some magazines until after we receive partial sales data. We model the system as a two-stage stochastic optimization problem. Moreover, we show that the resulting cost is jointly convex in the decision variables. This approach gives rise to a multidimensional dynamic program. By formulating the second-stage subproblem as a linear program, we develop an innovative stochastic gradient-based optimization algorithm that finds the optimal solution in a matter of seconds. The changes resulting from this collaboration generated substantial cost savings at Yedioth-from both a reduction in magazine production levels and a reduction in the return levels. These savings were achieved while maintaining the same sales levels.

2013: Multi-location transshipment problem with capacitated production
Abstract: None

2013: Teaching Supply Chain Management: Mixed vs. Pure Strategies in Simulation Based Training
Abstract: None

2013: Printing House Paper Reel Management: An RFID Enabled Information Rich Approach
Abstract: In recent years the print industry has been facing constant and increasing competition from the double onslaught of the Internet and the proliferation of television channels. In order to survive as a viable industry, print enterprises must streamline and exploit up-to-date economizing measures. A key cost element in the print industry is paper, representing between 20% and 30% of total printing expenditures. Thus, any improvement in the operational efficiency of paper reel management has the potential of yielding considerable cost savings. It is in this context that we analyze the effect of enhancing the available paper reel supply chain information through the use of semi passive Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) technology. Focusing on the printing house, we develop both simulation models and formulas that forecast savings from having better information. Thereafter we implemented the system and compared the forecasts to actual savings. Using standard economic evaluation techniques we unequivocally show the economic imperative of introducing semi passive RFID technology. Even though this study was carried out in a specific printing house, we argue that its implications are far wider, affecting other industries.

