Recent papers for Yehuda Levy Kfir:

2025: Weight for Robustness: A Comprehensive Approach towards Optimal Fault-Tolerant Asynchronous ML
Abstract: We address the challenges of Byzantine-robust training in asynchronous distributed machine learning systems, aiming to enhance efficiency amid massive parallelization and heterogeneous computing resources. Asynchronous systems, marked by independently operating workers and intermittent updates, uniquely struggle with maintaining integrity against Byzantine failures, which encompass malicious or erroneous actions that disrupt learning. The inherent delays in such settings not only introduce additional bias to the system but also obscure the disruptions caused by Byzantine faults. To tackle these issues, we adapt the Byzantine framework to asynchronous dynamics by introducing a novel weighted robust aggregation framework. This allows for the extension of robust aggregators and a recent meta-aggregator to their weighted versions, mitigating the effects of delayed updates. By further incorporating a recent variance-reduction technique, we achieve an optimal convergence rate for the first time in an asynchronous Byzantine environment. Our methodology is rigorously validated through empirical and theoretical analysis, demonstrating its effectiveness in enhancing fault tolerance and optimizing performance in asynchronous ML systems.

2025: DE-PADA: Personalized Augmentation and Domain Adaptation for ECG Biometrics Across Physiological States
Abstract: Electrocardiogram (ECG)-based biometrics offer a promising method for user identification, combining intrinsic liveness detection with morphological uniqueness. However, elevated heart rates introduce significant physiological variability, posing challenges to pattern recognition systems and leading to a notable performance gap between resting and post-exercise conditions. Addressing this gap is critical for advancing ECG-based biometric systems for real-world applications. We propose DE-PADA, a Dual Expert model with Personalized Augmentation and Domain Adaptation, designed to enhance robustness across diverse physiological states. The model is trained primarily on resting-state data from the evaluation dataset, without direct exposure to their exercise data. To address variability, DE-PADA incorporates ECG-specific innovations, including heartbeat segmentation into the PQRS interval, known for its relative temporal consistency, and the heart rate-sensitive ST interval, enabling targeted feature extraction tailored to each region's unique characteristics. Personalized augmentation simulates subject-specific T-wave variability across heart rates using individual T-wave peak predictions to adapt augmentation ranges. Domain adaptation further improves generalization by leveraging auxiliary data from supplementary subjects used exclusively for training, including both resting and exercise conditions. Experiments on the University of Toronto ECG Database demonstrate the model's effectiveness. DE-PADA achieves relative improvements in post-exercise identification rates of 26.75% in the initial recovery phase and 11.72% in the late recovery phase, while maintaining a 98.12% identification rate in the sitting position. These results highlight DE-PADA's ability to address intra-subject variability and enhance the robustness of ECG-based biometric systems across diverse physiological states.

2025: An Improved and Explainable Electricity Price Forecasting Model via SHAP-Based Error Compensation Approach
Abstract: Forecasting errors in power markets, even as small as 1%, can have significant financial implications. However, even high-performance artificial intelligence (AI) based electricity price forecasting (EPF) models have instances when their prediction error is much higher than those shown by mean performance metrics. To date, explainable AI has been used to enhance the model transparency and trustworthiness of AI-based EPF models. However, this article demonstrates that insights from explainable AI (XAI) techniques can be expanded beyond its primary task of explanatory visualizations. This work presents a XAI-based error compensation approach to improve model performance and identify irregular predictions. The first phase of the proposed approach involves error quantification through a Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) based corrector model that fine-tunes the base predictor's forecasts. Using this corrector model's SHAP explanations, the proposed approach distinguishes high-accuracy predictions from lower ones in the second stage. Additionally, these explanations are more simplified than the base model, making them easier for nonexpert users such as bidding agents. Performance enhancement and insightful user-centric explanations are crucial for real-world scenarios such as price spikes during network congestion, high renewable penetration, and fluctuating fuel costs. Case studies discussed here show the efficacy of the proposed approach independent of model architecture, feature combination, or behavioral patterns of electricity prices in different markets.

2024: Towards Faster Global Convergence of Robust Policy Gradient Methods
Abstract: None

2024: PMU placement for fault line location using neural additive models—A global XAI technique
Abstract: None

2024: Dynamic Byzantine-Robust Learning: Adapting to Switching Byzantine Workers
Abstract: Byzantine-robust learning has emerged as a prominent fault-tolerant distributed machine learning framework. However, most techniques focus on the static setting, wherein the identity of Byzantine workers remains unchanged throughout the learning process. This assumption fails to capture real-world dynamic Byzantine behaviors, which may include intermittent malfunctions or targeted, time-limited attacks. Addressing this limitation, we propose DynaBRO -- a new method capable of withstanding any sub-linear number of identity changes across rounds. Specifically, when the number of such changes is $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{T})$ (where $T$ is the total number of training rounds), DynaBRO nearly matches the state-of-the-art asymptotic convergence rate of the static setting. Our method utilizes a multi-level Monte Carlo (MLMC) gradient estimation technique applied at the server to robustly aggregated worker updates. By additionally leveraging an adaptive learning rate, we circumvent the need for prior knowledge of the fraction of Byzantine workers.

2024: Policy Gradient with Tree Search (PGTS) in Reinforcement Learning Evades Local Maxima
Abstract: None

2024: A Study of First-Order Methods with a Deterministic Relative-Error Gradient Oracle
Abstract: This paper studies the theoretical guarantees of the classical projected gradient and conditional gradient methods applied to constrained optimization problems with biased relative-error gradient oracles. These oracles are used in various settings, such as distributed optimization systems or derivative-free optimization, and are particularly common when gradients are compressed, quantized, or estimated via finite differences computations. Several settings are investigated: Optimization over the box with a coordinate-wise erroneous gradient oracle, optimization over a general compact convex set, and three more specific scenarios. Convergence guarantees are established with respect to the relative-error magnitude, and in particular, we show that the conditional gradient is invariant to relative-error when applied over the box with a coordinate-wise erroneous gradient oracle, and the projected gradient maintains its convergence guarantees when optimizing a nonconvex objective function.

2024: Learning the Uncertainty Set in Robust Markov Decision Process
Abstract: None

2024: Fault Tolerant ML: Efficient Meta-Aggregation and Synchronous Training
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the challenging framework of Byzantine-robust training in distributed machine learning (ML) systems, focusing on enhancing both efficiency and practicality. As distributed ML systems become integral for complex ML tasks, ensuring resilience against Byzantine failures-where workers may contribute incorrect updates due to malice or error-gains paramount importance. Our first contribution is the introduction of the Centered Trimmed Meta Aggregator (CTMA), an efficient meta-aggregator that upgrades baseline aggregators to optimal performance levels, while requiring low computational demands. Additionally, we propose harnessing a recently developed gradient estimation technique based on a double-momentum strategy within the Byzantine context. Our paper highlights its theoretical and practical advantages for Byzantine-robust training, especially in simplifying the tuning process and reducing the reliance on numerous hyperparameters. The effectiveness of this technique is supported by theoretical insights within the stochastic convex optimization (SCO) framework and corroborated by empirical evidence.

2024: Weight for Robustness: A Comprehensive Approach towards Optimal Fault-Tolerant Asynchronous ML
Abstract: None

2024: EXAQ: Exponent Aware Quantization For LLMs Acceleration
Abstract: Quantization has established itself as the primary approach for decreasing the computational and storage expenses associated with Large Language Models (LLMs) inference. The majority of current research emphasizes quantizing weights and activations to enable low-bit general-matrix-multiply (GEMM) operations, with the remaining non-linear operations executed at higher precision. In our study, we discovered that following the application of these techniques, the primary bottleneck in LLMs inference lies in the softmax layer. The softmax operation comprises three phases: exponent calculation, accumulation, and normalization, Our work focuses on optimizing the first two phases. We propose an analytical approach to determine the optimal clipping value for the input to the softmax function, enabling sub-4-bit quantization for LLMs inference. This method accelerates the calculations of both $e^x$ and $\sum(e^x)$ with minimal to no accuracy degradation. For example, in LLaMA1-30B, we achieve baseline performance with 2-bit quantization on the well-known"Physical Interaction: Question Answering"(PIQA) dataset evaluation. This ultra-low bit quantization allows, for the first time, an acceleration of approximately 4x in the accumulation phase. The combination of accelerating both $e^x$ and $\sum(e^x)$ results in a 36.9% acceleration in the softmax operation.

2024: Efficient Value Iteration for s-rectangular Robust Markov Decision Processes
Abstract: We focus on s -rectangular robust Markov decision processes (MDPs), which capture inter-connected uncertainties across different actions within each state. This framework is more general compared to sa -rectangular robust MDPs, where uncertainties in each action are independent. However, the introduced interdependence significantly amplifies the complexity of the problem. Existing methods either have slow performance guarantees or are inapplicable to even moderately large state spaces. In this work, we derive optimal robust Bellman operators in explicit forms. This leads to robust value iteration methods with significantly faster time complexities than existing approaches, which can be used in large state spaces. Further, our findings reveal that the optimal policies demonstrate a novel threshold behavior, selectively favoring a limited set of actions based on their respective advantage functions. Additionally, our study uncovers a noteworthy connection be-tween the robustness of a policy and the variance in its value function, highlighting that policies with lower variance exhibit greater resilience.

2024: Improved Sample Complexity for Global Convergence of Actor-Critic Algorithms
Abstract: In this paper, we establish the global convergence of the actor-critic algorithm with a significantly improved sample complexity of $O(\epsilon^{-3})$, advancing beyond the existing local convergence results. Previous works provide local convergence guarantees with a sample complexity of $O(\epsilon^{-2})$ for bounding the squared gradient of the return, which translates to a global sample complexity of $O(\epsilon^{-4})$ using the gradient domination lemma. In contrast to traditional methods that employ decreasing step sizes for both the actor and critic, we demonstrate that a constant step size for the critic is sufficient to ensure convergence in expectation. This key insight reveals that using a decreasing step size for the actor alone is sufficient to handle the noise for both the actor and critic. Our findings provide theoretical support for the practical success of many algorithms that rely on constant step sizes.

2024: Private and Federated Stochastic Convex Optimization: Efficient Strategies for Centralized Systems
Abstract: This paper addresses the challenge of preserving privacy in Federated Learning (FL) within centralized systems, focusing on both trusted and untrusted server scenarios. We analyze this setting within the Stochastic Convex Optimization (SCO) framework, and devise methods that ensure Differential Privacy (DP) while maintaining optimal convergence rates for homogeneous and heterogeneous data distributions. Our approach, based on a recent stochastic optimization technique, offers linear computational complexity, comparable to non-private FL methods, and reduced gradient obfuscation. This work enhances the practicality of DP in FL, balancing privacy, efficiency, and robustness in a variety of server trust environment.

2024: On the Global Convergence of Policy Gradient in Average Reward Markov Decision Processes
Abstract: We present the first finite time global convergence analysis of policy gradient in the context of infinite horizon average reward Markov decision processes (MDPs). Specifically, we focus on ergodic tabular MDPs with finite state and action spaces. Our analysis shows that the policy gradient iterates converge to the optimal policy at a sublinear rate of $O\left({\frac{1}{T}}\right),$ which translates to $O\left({\log(T)}\right)$ regret, where $T$ represents the number of iterations. Prior work on performance bounds for discounted reward MDPs cannot be extended to average reward MDPs because the bounds grow proportional to the fifth power of the effective horizon. Thus, our primary contribution is in proving that the policy gradient algorithm converges for average-reward MDPs and in obtaining finite-time performance guarantees. In contrast to the existing discounted reward performance bounds, our performance bounds have an explicit dependence on constants that capture the complexity of the underlying MDP. Motivated by this observation, we reexamine and improve the existing performance bounds for discounted reward MDPs. We also present simulations to empirically evaluate the performance of average reward policy gradient algorithm.

2023: Explainability-based Trust Algorithm for electricity price forecasting models
Abstract: None

2023: Meta-Learning Adversarial Bandit Algorithms
Abstract: We study online meta-learning with bandit feedback, with the goal of improving performance across multiple tasks if they are similar according to some natural similarity measure. As the first to target the adversarial online-within-online partial-information setting, we design meta-algorithms that combine outer learners to simultaneously tune the initialization and other hyperparameters of an inner learner for two important cases: multi-armed bandits (MAB) and bandit linear optimization (BLO). For MAB, the meta-learners initialize and set hyperparameters of the Tsallis-entropy generalization of Exp3, with the task-averaged regret improving if the entropy of the optima-in-hindsight is small. For BLO, we learn to initialize and tune online mirror descent (OMD) with self-concordant barrier regularizers, showing that task-averaged regret varies directly with an action space-dependent measure they induce. Our guarantees rely on proving that unregularized follow-the-leader combined with two levels of low-dimensional hyperparameter tuning is enough to learn a sequence of affine functions of non-Lipschitz and sometimes non-convex Bregman divergences bounding the regret of OMD.

2023: SLowcal-SGD: Slow Query Points Improve Local-SGD for Stochastic Convex Optimization
Abstract: We consider distributed learning scenarios where M machines interact with a parameter server along several communication rounds in order to minimize a joint objective function. Focusing on the heterogeneous case, where different machines may draw samples from different data-distributions, we design the first local update method that provably benefits over the two most prominent distributed baselines: namely Minibatch-SGD and Local-SGD. Key to our approach is a slow querying technique that we customize to the distributed setting, which in turn enables a better mitigation of the bias caused by local updates.

2023: DropCompute: simple and more robust distributed synchronous training via compute variance reduction
Abstract: Background: Distributed training is essential for large scale training of deep neural networks (DNNs). The dominant methods for large scale DNN training are synchronous (e.g. All-Reduce), but these require waiting for all workers in each step. Thus, these methods are limited by the delays caused by straggling workers. Results: We study a typical scenario in which workers are straggling due to variability in compute time. We find an analytical relation between compute time properties and scalability limitations, caused by such straggling workers. With these findings, we propose a simple yet effective decentralized method to reduce the variation among workers and thus improve the robustness of synchronous training. This method can be integrated with the widely used All-Reduce. Our findings are validated on large-scale training tasks using 200 Gaudi Accelerators.

