Recent papers for Yoram Baram:

2022: Motion Control - Multi-Faceted Movement in Space, Time and Neurological Impairment
Abstract: None

2021: The Subcritical Brain - A Synergy of Segregated Neural Circuits in Memory, Cognition and Sensorimotor Control
Abstract: None

2020: Probabilistically segregated neural circuits and subcritical linguistics
Abstract: None

2020: Primal-size neural circuits in meta-periodic interaction
Abstract: None

2019: Primal categories of neural polarity codes
Abstract: None

2018: Circuit Polarity Effect of Cortical Connectivity, Activity, and Memory
Abstract: Abstract Experimental constraints have traditionally implied separate studies of different cortical functions, such as memory and sensory-motor control. Yet certain cortical modalities, while repeatedly observed and reported, have not been clearly identified with one cortical function or another. Specifically, while neuronal membrane and synapse polarities with respect to a certain potential value have been attracting considerable interest in recent years, the purposes of such polarities have largely remained a subject for speculation and debate. Formally identifying these polarities as on-off neuronal polarity gates, we analytically show that cortical circuit structure, behavior, and memory are all governed by the combined potent effect of these gates, which we collectively term circuit polarity. Employing widely accepted and biologically validated firing rate and plasticity paradigms, we show that circuit polarity is mathematically embedded in the corresponding models. Moreover, we show that the firing rate dynamics implied by these models are driven by ongoing circuit polarity gating dynamics. Furthermore, circuit polarity is shown to segregate cortical circuits into internally synchronous, externally asynchronous subcircuits, defining their firing rate modes in accordance with different cortical tasks. In contrast to the Hebbian paradigm, which is shown to be susceptible to mutual neuronal interference in the face of asynchrony, circuit polarity is shown to block such interference. Noting convergence of synaptic weights, we show that circuit polarity holds the key to cortical memory, having a segregated capacity linear in the number of neurons. While memory concealment is implied by complete neuronal silencing, memory is restored by reactivating the original circuit polarity. Finally, we show that incomplete deterioration or restoration of circuit polarity results in memory modification, which may be associated with partial or false recall, or novel innovation.

2017: Transformative Autonomous Entrainment of Gait in Neurological Patients
Abstract: Background: External entrainment of gait in patients with Parkinson's disease by a constantly moving visual cue or by a rhythmic auditory cue has been proposed and extensively studied. We have found that such entrainment, having positive effects on some of the patients, also has adverse effects, such as freezing of gait, on others. 
Methods and findings: Closed-loop autonomous entrainment by visual or auditory feedback, generated by the patient's own movement, is found to be inherently stable, whereas open-loop external entrainment is inherently unstable. Autonomous entrainment is found to be not only dopamine rewarding, but also embedding, by learning, reward seeking behavior. Enhanced by environmental novelty and cognitive vigilance, such behavior is found to have a more pronounced expression under higher dimensional geometric feedback. 
Results: Reviewed clinical studies show a considerably higher gait improvement, without adverse effects, under autonomous entrainment than under external entrainment, having adverse effects. Considerably higher improvement is produced by two-dimensional checkerboard tiles than by one-dimensional transverse lines. Gait improvement by autonomous entrainment is found to apply to a variety of neurological disorders. 
Conclusion: Autonomous gait entrainment and higher dimensional visual feedback produce highly pronounced gait improvement, transformative across space, time and different neurological disorders.

2017: Developmental metaplasticity in neural circuit codes of firing and structure
Abstract: None

2017: Asynchronous Segregation of Cortical Circuits and Their Function: A Life-long Role for Synaptic Death
Abstract: The functional role of synapse elimination has been debated since its discovery nearly three decades ago. Its widely perceived function in the removal of unnecessary and malfunctioning synapses in early life for the improvement of neural circuit performance has justified the term “synaptic pruning”. Yet, while recent experimental findings suggest the persistence of synaptic elimination into maturity and beyond, its cause and functionality have remained a mystery. Here we show that synapse elimination, caused by asynchronous neural firing, segregates individual neurons and neural circuits into interference-free synchronous isolation. Such segregation is shown to determine not only the circuit sizes, but also the circuit firing rate modes, fundamental to a large variety of cortical functions throughout life.

2017: Embedding Neurological Autonomy in Gait Entrainment
Abstract: Before there was any science to explain empirical observations, the immense powers of medicine were derived from the mysterious positive effects of medication. Even when humans began to realize that their existence and well-being depended to considerable extent on what was going on inside their heads, they turned to mystical reasoning, promoted by the theological institutions. Only during the past two hundred years has science, as we know it today, become a dominant force of reason and rationality. Medical schools were the first to flourish. Following the industrial revolution, engineering has been given an increasingly significant role in assisting and monitoring medical procedures. Mathematics, long considered a somewhat mysterious playground for the very bright, has only been established as a formal academic discipline during the twentieth century. It has turned certain engineering domains, such as electronic communication, digital computation, and automatic control, into highly theoretical disciplines, yielding, in turn, very substantial technological advancement. Can mathematical thinking also enhance medicine in a similar manner? As I can infer from my own experience, the answer to this question is largely positive. Yet, in view of possible medical implications, both analytic and medical merits must be examined with unambiguous care.

2016: Closed-loop auditory feedback for the improvement of gait in patients with Parkinson's disease
Abstract: None

2015: Dopaminergic Neuron Coupled-Oscillator Model of the Mesencephalic Transient High-Frequency Firing in a
Abstract: None

2014: Reports Virtual Reality Feedback Cues for Improvement of Gait in Patients with Parkinson ’ s Disease
Abstract: Background: Our aim was to study the effects of visual feedback cues, responding dynamically to patient’s self-motion and provided through a portable seethrough virtual reality apparatus, on the walking abilities of patients with Parkinson’s disease. Methods: Twenty patients participated. On-line and residual effects on walking speed and stride length were measured. Results: Attaching the visual feedback device to the patient with the display turned off showed a negligible effect of about 2%. With the display turned on, 56% of the patients improved either their walking speed, or their stride length, or both, by over 20%. After device removal, and waiting for 15 minutes, the patients were instructed to walk again: 68% of the patients showed over 20% improvement in either walking speed or stride length or both. One week after participating in the first test, 36% of the patients showed over 20% improvement in baseline performance with respect to the previous test. Some of the patients reported that they still walked on the tiles in their minds. Discussion: Improvements in walking abilities were measured in patients with Parkinson’s disease using virtual reality visual feedback cues. Residual effects suggest the examination of this approach in a comprehensive therapy program.

2014: Brief Reports Virtual Reality Feedback Cues for Improvement of Gait in Patients with Parkinson's Disease
Abstract: Background: Our aim was to study the effects of visual feedback cues, responding dynamically to patient’s self-motion and provided through a portable seethrough virtual reality apparatus, on the walking abilities of patients with Parkinson’s disease. Methods: Twenty patients participated. On-line and residual effects on walking speed and stride length were measured. Results: Attaching the visual feedback device to the patient with the display turned off showed a negligible effect of about 2%. With the display turned on, 56% of the patients improved either their walking speed, or their stride length, or both, by over 20%. After device removal, and waiting for 15 minutes, the patients were instructed to walk again: 68% of the patients showed over 20% improvement in either walking speed or stride length or both. One week after participating in the first test, 36% of the patients showed over 20% improvement in baseline performance with respect to the previous test. Some of the patients reported that they still walked on the tiles in their minds. Discussion: Improvements in walking abilities were measured in patients with Parkinson’s disease using virtual reality visual feedback cues. Residual effects suggest the examination of this approach in a comprehensive therapy program.

2014: Virtual Reality Feedback Cues for Improvement of Gait in Patients with Parkinson's Disease
Abstract: Background Our aim was to study the effects of visual feedback cues, responding dynamically to patient's self-motion and provided through a portable see-through virtual reality apparatus, on the walking abilities of patients with Parkinson's disease. Methods Twenty patients participated. On-line and residual effects on walking speed and stride length were measured. Results Attaching the visual feedback device to the patient with the display turned off showed a negligible effect of about 2%. With the display turned on, 56% of the patients improved either their walking speed, or their stride length, or both, by over 20%. After device removal, and waiting for 15 minutes, the patients were instructed to walk again: 68% of the patients showed over 20% improvement in either walking speed or stride length or both. One week after participating in the first test, 36% of the patients showed over 20% improvement in baseline performance with respect to the previous test. Some of the patients reported that they still walked on the tiles in their minds. Discussion Improvements in walking abilities were measured in patients with Parkinson's disease using virtual reality visual feedback cues. Residual effects suggest the examination of this approach in a comprehensive therapy program.

2014: Effect of Visual Feedback on the Occipital-Parietal-Motor Network in Parkinson’s Disease with Freezing of Gait
Abstract: Freezing of gait (FOG) is an elusive phenomenon that debilitates a large number of Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients regardless of stage of disease, medication status, or deep brain stimulation implantation. Sensory feedback cues, especially visual feedback cues, have been shown to alleviate FOG episodes or even prevent episodes from occurring. Here, we examine cortical information flow between occipital, parietal, and motor areas during the pre-movement stage of gait in a PD-with-FOG patient that had a strong positive behavioral response to visual cues, one PD-with-FOG patient without any behavioral response to visual cues, and age-matched healthy controls, before and after training with visual feedback. Results for this case study show differences in cortical information flow between the responding PD-with-FOG patient and the other two subject types, notably, an increased information flow in the beta range. Tentatively suggesting the formation of an alternative cortical sensory-motor pathway during training with visual feedback, these results are proposed as subject for further verification employing larger cohorts of patients.

2013: Virtual Sensory Feedback for Gait Improvement in Neurological Patients
Abstract: We review a treatment modality for movement disorders by sensory feedback. The natural closed-loop sensory-motor feedback system is imitated by a wearable virtual reality apparatus, employing body-mounted inertial sensors and responding dynamically to the patient’s own motion. Clinical trials have shown a significant gait improvement in patients with Parkinson’s disease using the apparatus. In contrast to open-loop devices, which impose constant-velocity visual cues in a “treadmill” fashion, or rhythmic auditory cues in a “metronome” fashion, requiring constant vigilance and attention strategies, and, in some cases, instigating freezing in Parkinson’s patients, the closed-loop device improved gait parameters and eliminated freezing in most patients, without side effects. Patients with multiple sclerosis, previous stroke, senile gait, and cerebral palsy using the device also improved their balance and gait substantially. Training with the device has produced a residual improvement, suggesting virtual sensory feedback for the treatment of neurological movement disorders.

2013: Global attractor alphabet of neural firing modes.
Abstract: The elementary set, or alphabet, of neural firing modes is derived from the widely accepted conductance-based rectified firing-rate model. The firing dynamics of interacting neurons are shown to be governed by a multidimensional bilinear threshold discrete iteration map. The parameter-dependent global attractors of the map morph into 12 attractor types. Consistent with the dynamic modes observed in biological neuronal firing, the global attractor alphabet is highly visual and intuitive in the scalar, single-neuron case. As synapse permeability varies from high depression to high potentiation, the global attractor type varies from chaotic to multiplexed, oscillatory, fixed, and saturated. As membrane permeability decreases, the global attractor transforms from active to passive state. Under the same activation, learning and retrieval end at the same global attractor. The bilinear threshold structure of the multidimensional map associated with interacting neurons generalizes the global attractor alphabet of neuronal firing modes to multineuron systems. Selective positive or negative activation and neural interaction yield combinatorial revelation and concealment of stored neuronal global attractors.

2012: Sliding Global Attractors of Neural Learning and Memory
Abstract: The highly variable nature of neural firing has been recognized by diverse empirical and analytic findings. Here, the underlying morphology of neural firing is shown to be governed by a bilinear map, prescribing eight types of neuronal global attractors and their points of local bifurcation. While synaptic learning gives rise to irregular firing, membrane memory is shown to guarantee that, under the same external activation, learning and retrieval end at the same global attractor. Forced and spontaneous changes in membrane conductance are shown to cause sliding of the global attractors, switching them from passive to active state and vice versa, and creating secondary firing modes. Selective activation of interacting neurons is shown to create a shunting effect, yielding combinatorial retrieval, concealment and revelation of stored global attractors. The utility of the global attractors is explained not only by their individual dynamic characteristics, but also by their high power of combinatorial expression.

2012: Noninvertibility, Chaotic Coding, and Chaotic Multiplexity of Synaptically Modulated Neural Firing
Abstract: Widely accepted neural firing and synaptic potentiation rules specify a cross-dependence of the two processes, which, evolving on different timescales, have been separated for analytic purposes, concealing essential dynamics. Here, the morphology of the firing rates process, modulated by synaptic potentiation, is shown to be described by a discrete iteration map in the form of a thresholded polynomial. Given initial synaptic weights, a firing activity is triggered by conductance. Elementary dynamic modes are defined by fixed points, cycles, and saddles of the map, building blocks of the underlying firing code. Showing parameter-dependent multiplicity of real polynomial roots, the map is proved to be noninvertible. The incidence of chaos is then implied by the parameter-dependent existence of snap-back repellers. The highly patterned geometric and statistical structures of the associated chaotic attractors suggest that these attractors are an integral part of the neural code. It further suggests the chaotic attractor as a natural mechanism for statistical encoding and temporal multiplexing of neural information. The analytic findings are supported by simulation.

