Recent papers for Zadok Avinoam:

2023: Measuring glass transition of a polymer coating layer over working fiber using forward Brillouin scattering.
Abstract: The glass transition temperature is a key parameter of polymer coating layers that protect optical fibers, and it affects the proper function of the fibers in their service environment. Established protocols for glass transition temperature measurements are destructive, require samples of specific geometries, and may only be carried out offline. In this work, we report the nondestructive measurement of the glass transition temperature of an acrylate polymer coating layer over a working standard fiber. The method is based on forward stimulated Brillouin scattering. A large decrease in the modulus of the coating layer above the glass transition temperature manifests in the narrowing of the modal linewidths in the forward Brillouin scattering spectrum. The transition temperature agrees with the standard dynamic mechanical analysis of samples made of the same polymer. The protocol can be useful for coating materials research and development, production line quality assurance, and preventive maintenance.

2023: Opto-mechanical fiber sensing with optical and acoustic cladding modes
Abstract: Optical fibers are an excellent sensor platform. However, the detection and analysis of media outside the cladding and coating of standard fibers represent a long-standing challenge: light that is guided in the single optical core mode does not reach these media. Cladding modes help work around this difficulty, as their transverse profiles span the entire cross-section of the fiber cladding and reach its outer boundary. In this tutorial, we introduce and discuss in detail two recent advances in optical fiber sensors that make use of cladding modes. Both concepts share optomechanics as a common underlying theme. First, we describe a spatially continuous distributed analysis using the optical cladding modes of the fiber. Light is coupled to these modes using Brillouin dynamic gratings, which are index perturbations associated with acoustic waves in the core that are stimulated by light. Unlike permanent gratings, which are routinely used to couple light with cladding modes, Brillouin dynamic gratings may be switched on and off at will and can be confined to short fiber sections at arbitrary locations in a random-access manner. Second, we present the extension of the cladding mode sensor concept to include acoustic rather than optical modes. The acoustic cladding modes may be stimulated and monitored by guided light in the single core mode, and their linewidths are modified by the elastic properties of surrounding media. The principles and analyses of both concepts are provided in detail, alongside examples of experimental setups and results.

2023: Forward Brillouin Scattering Fiber Sensors
Abstract: Sensors based on forward Brillouin scattering processes allow for quantitative analysis of liquid media and coating layers outside the cladding of standard, unmodified fibers. Point measurements and spatially distributed analysis have been demonstrated.

2023: Tensor characteristics of forward Brillouin sensors in bare and coated fibers
Abstract: Forward Brillouin scattering fiber sensors can detect and analyze media outside the cladding of standard fibers, where guided light does not reach. Nearly all such sensors reported to-date have relied on the radially symmetric guided acoustic modes of the fiber. Wave motion in these modes is strictly dilatational. However, forward Brillouin scattering also takes place through torsional–radial guided acoustic modes of the fiber. Torsional–radial modes exhibit more complex tensor characteristics, and they consist of both dilatational and shear wave contributions. In this work, we show that forward Brillouin sensing through torsional–radial acoustic modes is qualitatively different from processes based on the radial ones. While dilatational wave components may dissipate toward liquids outside the fiber cladding, shear waves do not. Consequently, the effect of outside liquids varies among torsional–radial modes. Those modes that are dominated by their dilatational components undergo faster decay rates, whereas other modes with large shear contributions decay at much slower rates in the same liquid. The difference in decay rates may reach a factor of seven. Experimental observations are well supported by the analysis. The differences among modes are also found with liquid outside specific coating layers. Large changes in decay rates are observed when a phase transition between solid and liquid occurs outside the cladding boundary. The monitoring of multiple mode categories provides more complete assessment of outside media and enhances the capabilities of forward Brillouin scattering fiber sensors.

2023: Tensor Attributes of Forward Brillouin Fiber Sensors
Abstract: Forward Brillouin scattering through torsional radial modes is studied in bare and coated fibers in liquids. Tensor characteristics distinguish between two mode types. Shear dominated modes are significantly less affected by liquids outside the fiber.

2023: Angular momentum exchange in stimulated Brillouin scattering by acoustic vortex beams
Abstract: None

2022: Robust Directional Couplers for State Manipulation in Silicon Photonic-Integrated Circuits
Abstract: Photonic integrated circuits play a central role in current and future applications such as communications, sensing, ranging, and information processing. Photonic quantum computing will also likely require an integrated optics architecture for improved stability, scalability, and performance. Fault-tolerant quantum computing mandates very accurate and robust quantum gates. In this work, we demonstrate high-fidelity directional couplers for single-qubit gates in photonic integrated waveguides, utilizing a novel scheme of detuning-modulated composite segments. Specific designs for reduced sensitivity to wavelength variations and real-world geometrical fabrication errors in waveguides width and depth are presented. Enhanced wavelength tolerance is demonstrated experimentally. The concept shows great promise for scaling high fidelity gates as part of integrated quantum optics architectures.

2022: Surface Acoustic Wave Microwave Photonic Filters in Silicon-on-Insulator with 16 and 32 Taps
Abstract: Integrated, discrete time microwave filters are realized in surface acoustic wave photonic devices in standard silicon on insulator. The devices are scaled to 16 and 32 taps. A single 7 MHz-wide passband is demonstrated.

2022: Optomechanical measurements of optical fiber coating for radiation dosimetry and structural health monitoring
Abstract: In this work, we demonstrate optomechanical measurements of radiation induced alterations of the acoustic velocity in a fluoroacrylate polymer coating of a silica optical fiber. The optomechanical measurement is based on forward Brillouin scattering initiated in the fiber core which stimulates acoustic waves that reach the fiber coating. The measurement may serve as an additional metric to quantify the dose of ionizing radiation to which the fiber was exposed. We have demonstrated that the stiffness of the coating increases following gamma irradiation, as measured by the time of flight of radial acoustic waves through the coating. The measurement was performed on few meters long fiber, but can be extended to a spatially distributed analysis in longer fibers. The tests showed a linear dependence of the acoustic time-of flight on the overall dosage of gamma irradiation. The time of flight decreased by as much as 15% following exposure to 180 Mrad from a 60Co source. In a follow-up study, we found that the stiffness of the previously exposed fiber coatings continued to slowly increase over months, after extraction from the radiation field. These results reveal the vulnerability of the specific coating to ionizing radiation and the potential complexities involved with dosimetry.

2022: Surface acoustic wave photonic filters with a single narrow radio-frequency passband in standard silicon on insulator
Abstract: None

2022: Analysis of thin layers using surface acoustic wave-photonic devices in silicon-on-insulator.
Abstract: The analysis of thin layers deposited on various substrates is widely employed in thickness monitoring, materials research and development and quality control. Measurements are often performed based on changes to acoustic resonance frequencies of quartz micro-balance devices. The technique is extremely sensitive, but it is restricted to hundreds of MHz frequencies and requires electrical connectivity. In this work we propose and demonstrate the analysis of elastic properties of thin layers deposited on surface acoustic wave-photonic devices in standard silicon-on-insulator. The devices operate at 2.4 GHz frequency, and their interfaces are fiber-optic. The radio-frequency transfer functions of the devices are modified by sub-percent level changes to the group velocity of surface acoustic waves following deposition of layers. Layers of aluminum oxide and germanium sulfide of thickness between 10-80 nm are characterized. The analysis provides estimates for Young's modulus of the layers.

2022: Brillouin Optical Time-Domain Distributed Analysis of Cladding Modes in a Coated Fiber
Abstract: Brillouin optical time domain analysis of coupling to cladding modes of standard, coated fiber is demonstrated. Uncertainty in local changes of effective indices is below 10-6 RIU. Local effect of acetone on coating is identified.

2022: Direct Spatially Distributed Analysis of Forward Brillouin Scattering in Polarization Maintaining Fibers
Abstract: Direct distributed analysis of forward Brillouin scattering is demonstrated for the first time. Intermodal scattering in a polarization maintaining fiber is mapped via a counterpropagating probe. Measurements distinguish between air and water outside coated fiber.

2022: Forward Brillouin Point Sensor in a Multi-Core Fiber
Abstract: Forward Brillouin point sensing is demonstrated in a multi-core fiber. Acoustic waves are stimulated by light in one core and monitored using a grating in another. Measurements distinguish between ethanol and water outside the cladding.

2022: Optical fiber point sensors based on forward Brillouin scattering.
Abstract: Forward Brillouin scattering interactions support the sensing and analysis of media outside the cladding boundaries of standard fibers, where light cannot reach. Quantitative point-sensing based on this principle has yet to be reported. In this work, we report a forward Brillouin scattering point-sensor in a commercially available, off-the-shelf multi-core fiber. Pump light at the inner, on-axis core of the fiber is used to stimulate a guided acoustic mode of the entire fiber cross-section. The acoustic wave, in turn, induces photoelastic perturbations to the reflectivity of a Bragg grating inscribed in an outer, off-axis core of the same fiber. The measurements successfully analyze refractive index perturbations on the tenth decimal point and distinguish between ethanol and water outside the centimeter-long grating. The measured forward Brillouin scattering linewidths agree with predictions. The acquired spectra are unaffected by forward Brillouin scattering outside the grating region. The results add point-analysis to the portfolio of forward Brillouin scattering optical fiber sensors.

2022: Forward Brillouin Laser in a Polarization Maintaining Fiber
Abstract: A first fiber laser based on forward Brillouin scattering is proposed and demonstrated. The laser is based on inter-modal scattering in a standard panda type polarization maintaining fiber. Single-mode and multi-mode regimes are demonstrated.

2022: Thermo-elastic gigahertz-frequency oscillator through surface acoustic wave-silicon photonics.
Abstract: Opto-electronic oscillators are sources of microwave-frequency tones that may reach very low noise levels. Much effort is being dedicated to the realization of oscillators based on photonic integrated devices. In this work, we propose and demonstrate a thermo-elastic opto-electronic oscillator at 2.213 GHz frequency based on a standard silicon-photonic integrated circuit. A microwave-frequency electrical signal modulates an optical pump wave carrier. The modulated waveform launches surface acoustic waves in a silicon-on-insulator substrate, through absorption in a metallic grating and thermo-elastic actuation. The waveform is reconverted to the optical domain through photoelastic modulation of an optical probe wave carrier in a standard racetrack resonator waveguide. Both the thermo-elastic actuation and the photoelastic modulation are radio-frequency selective. The output probe wave is detected, and the receiver voltage is amplified and fed back to modulate the optical pump input. Sufficient gain drives the loop into oscillations. The oscillator does not involve piezoelectricity and can be realized on any substrate. Long acoustic delays may be implemented in compact devices. The frequency of operation is scalable to tens of GHz. The principle may be useful in integrated microwave-photonic signal processing and in the elastic analysis of surfaces and thin layers.

2022: Forward Brillouin Scattering in Standard Optical Fibers: Single-Mode, Polarization-Maintaining, and Multi-Core
Abstract: None

2022: A forward Brillouin fibre laser
Abstract: None

2022: Detuning Modulated Composite Segments for High Fidelity Directional Couplers in Integrated Photonic Devices
Abstract: We demonstrate a high-fidelity directional coupler in photonic integrated waveguides, utilizing a novel scheme of detuning modulated composite segments. We reduce the wavelength dependence by almost an order of magnitude, indicating significantly increased robustness.

