Recent papers for Zeevi Yehoshua:

2023: LungNet: a deep learning model for diagnosis of respiratory pathologies from lung sounds
Abstract: We propose LungNet; a deep learning architecture for the diagnosis of respiratory pathologies using multi-dimensional representations of lung sounds. The model is comprised of two independent branches, denoted CNN and LSTM. We have worked on three independent databases and conducted two experiments to evaluate the performance of our model. In the first experiment, the databases were merged into a single dataset. In the second experiment, we studied the distribution shift between the databases by training the model on one database and testing it on the other two. Our model outperformed the two baselines for both experiments. Our results suggest that LungNet has the potential to be a valuable tool for diagnosing respiratory pathologies, and could be integrated into clinical practice.

2022: Classification of audio signals using spectrogram surfaces and extrinsic distortion measures
Abstract: None

2021: Distortion measure of spectrograms for classification of respiratory diseases
Abstract: A new method for the classification of respiratory diseases is presented. The method is based on a novel class of features, extracted from pulmonary sounds, by parameterizing their spectrograms that are represented as surfaces, and by utilizing geometrical distortions defined with reference to these surfaces. This method yields a set of highly descriptive features for the analysis of pulmonary sound recordings. Furthermore, by combining these features with Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, we introduce a powerful model for the automatic diagnosis of common respiratory pathologies. Compared with baseline methods, our model achieves superior results for binary and multi-class classifications of common respiratory diseases. Our new approach to the classification of one-dimensional signals is applicable to other signals in the context of their representations in combined spaces or manifolds.

2021: On Inversion-Free Mapping and Distortion Minimization
Abstract: None

2020: Adaptive Block Coordinate Descent for Distortion Optimization
Abstract: We present a new algorithm for optimizing geometric energies and computing positively oriented simplicial mappings. Our major improvements over the state‐of‐the‐art are: (i) introduction of new energies for repairing inverted and collapsed simplices; (ii) adaptive partitioning of vertices into coordinate blocks with the blended local‐global strategy for more efficient optimization and (iii) introduction of the displacement norm for improving convergence criteria and for controlling block partitioning. Together these improvements form the basis for the Adaptive Block Coordinate Descent (ABCD) algorithm aimed at robust geometric optimization. ABCD achieves state‐of‐the‐art results in distortion minimization, even under hard positional constraints and highly distorted invalid initializations that contain thousands of collapsed and inverted elements. Starting with an invalid non‐injective initial map, ABCD behaves as a modified block coordinate descent up to the point where the current mapping is cleared of invalid simplices. Then, the algorithm converges rapidly into the chosen iterative solver. Our method is very general, fast‐converging and easily parallelizable. We show over a wide range of 2D and 3D problems that our algorithm is more robust than existing techniques for locally injective mapping.

2020: Remote Atrial Fibrillation Burden Estimation Using Deep Recurrent Neural Network
Abstract: <italic>Objective:</italic> The atrial fibrillation burden (AFB) is defined as the percentage of time spent in atrial fibrillation (AF) over a long enough monitoring period. Recent research has suggested the added prognostic value of using the AFB compared to a binary diagnosis. We evaluate, for the first time, the ability to estimate the AFB over long-term continuous recordings, using a deep recurrent neutral network (DRNN) approach. <italic>Methods:</italic> The models were developed and evaluated on a large database of <italic>p</italic> = 2,891 patients, totaling <italic>t</italic> = 68,800 hours of continuous electrocardiography (ECG) recordings from the University of Virginia. Specifically, 24h beat-to-beat time series were obtained from a single portable ECG channel. The network, denoted ArNet, was benchmarked against a gradient boosting (XGB) model, trained on 21 features including the coefficient of sample entropy (CosEn) and AFEvidence that is derived from the number of irregular points revealed by the Lorenz plot. The generalizations of ArNet and XGB were also evaluated on the independent PhysioNet LTAF test database. Results: the absolute AF burden estimation error <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$| {{E_{AF}}({\text{\% }})} |$</tex-math></inline-formula>, median and interquartile, on the test set, was 1.2 (0.1-6.7) for ArNet and 2.8 (0.9-11.7) for XGB for AF individuals. Generalization results on LTAF were consistent with <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$| {{E_{AF}}({\text{\% }})} |$</tex-math></inline-formula> of 2.7 (1.1-14.7) for ArNet and 3.6 (1.0-16.7) for XGB. <italic>Conclusion:</italic> This research demonstrates the feasibility of AFB estimation from 24h beat-to-beat interval time series utilizing DRNNs. <italic>Significance:</italic> The novel data-driven approach enables robust remote diagnosis and phenotyping of AF.

2019: Blind Deblurring of Natural Stochastic Textures Using an Anisotropic Fractal Model and Phase Retrieval Algorithm
Abstract: The challenging inverse problem of blind deblurring has been investigated thoroughly for natural images. Existing algorithms exploit edge-type structures, or similarity to smaller patches within the image, to estimate the correct blurring kernel. However, these methods do not perform well enough on natural stochastic textures (NSTs), which are mostly random and, in general, are not characterized by distinct edges and contours. In NST, even small kernels cause severe degradation to images. Restoration poses, therefore, an outstanding challenge. In this paper, we refine an existing method by implementing an anisotropic fractal model to estimate the blur kernel’s power spectral density. The final kernel is then estimated via an adaptation of a phase retrieval algorithm, originally proposed for sparse signals. We further incorporate additional constraints that are specific to blur filters, to yield even better results. The latter are compared with results obtained by recently published blind deblurring methods.

2019: Texture and Structure Two-view Classification of Images
Abstract: Textural and structural features can be regraded as "two-view" feature sets. Inspired by the recent progress in multi-view learning, we propose a novel two-view classification method that models each feature set and optimizes the process of merging these views efficiently. Examples of implementation of this approach in classification of real-world data are presented, with special emphasis on medical images. We firstly decompose fully-textured images into two layers of representation, corresponding to natural stochastic textures (NST) and structural layer, respectively. The structural, edge-and-curve-type, information is mostly represented by the local spatial phase, whereas, the pure NST has random phase and is characterized by Gaussianity and self-similarity. Therefore, the NST is modeled by the 2D self-similar process, fractional Brownian motion (fBm). The Hurst parameter, characteristic of fBm, specifies the roughness or irregularity of the texture. This leads us to its estimation and implementation along other features extracted from the structure layer, to build the "two-view" features sets used in our classification scheme. A shallow neural net (NN) is exploited to execute the process of merging these feature sets, in a straightforward and efficient manner.

2019: Adaptive Block Coordinate Descent for Distortion Minimization
Abstract: We present a new uniﬁed algorithm for optimizing geometric energies and computing positively oriented simplicial mappings. Its major improvements over the state-of-the-art are: adaptive partition of vertices into coordinate blocks with the blended local-global strategy, introduction of new distortion energies for repairing inverted and degenerated simplices, modiﬁcation of standard rotation-invariant measures, introduction of displacement norm for improving convergence criteria and for controlling the proposed local-global blending. Together these improvements form the basis for Adaptive Block Coordinate Descent (ABCD) algorithm aimed at robust geometric optimization. Our algorithm achieves state-of-the-art results in distortion minimization, even with highly distorted invalid initializations that contain thousands of inverted and degenerated elements. We show over a wide range of 2D and 3D problems that ABCD is more robust than existing techniques in locally injective mappings.

2019: Multi-resolution approach to computing locally injective maps on meshes
Abstract: Computing injective mappings with low distortions on meshes is an important problem for its wide range of practical applications in computer graphics, geometric modeling and physical simulations. Such tasks as surface parametrization or shape deformation are often reduced to minimizing non-convex and non-linear geometric energies defined over triangulated domains. These energies are commonly expressed in a finite element manner as a weighted sum of distortion densities D over simplixes S:[MATHS HERE]where (2) enforces f to preserve orientation of each simplex, and (A, b) is a linear system of the given positional constraints. The orientation constraints are particularly important in parametrization problems, since they avoid undesirable foldover artifacts in the texture, while positional constraints are widely used in shape deformation applications, such as point-to-point deformations, deformations with fixed anchors, and more.

2019: Fractal Features Combined with Local Phase Information in Texture Analysis
Abstract: This paper concerns processing, analysis and classification of fully-textured images, which contain both natural stochastic texture (NST) and structured information (SI). Whereas the fractal attributes of Gaussianity and self-similarity, that characterize purely NST, are fully represented by the spatial spectrum, and the corresponding spatial phase of the NST is random, the structural, edge-and-curve-type, information is mostly represented by the local spatial phase. We therefore decompose textured images into two layers, corresponding to the NST and SI, respectively. We show that the extent to which the texture obeys the fractal property of self-similarity, can be assessed by the mutual information that exists between scales. The phase of this layer, in the spatial Fourier domain, is random and exhibit approximately uniform distribution. We confirm this random behavior using the Kolmagorov-Smirnov hypothesis testing framework. We proceed to construct a classification space that combines features/dimensions that characterize the two layers of the stochastic (fBm-type spectrum) and deterministic (phase) attributes of partial spatial information, and address the implementation of this space in classification of fully-textured images encountered in modeling and analysis of images in various fields by providing an example.

2019: On the Self-Similarity of Natural Stochastic Textures
Abstract: Self-similarity is the essence of fractal images and, as such, characterizes natural stochastic textures. This paper is concerned with the property of self-similarity in the statistical sense in the case of fully-textured images that contain both stochastic texture and structural (mostly deterministic) information. We firstly decompose a textured image into two layers corresponding to its texture and structure, and show that the layer representing the stochastic texture is characterized by random phase of uniform distribution, unlike the phase of the structured information which is coherent. The uniform distribution of the the random phase is verified by using a suitable hypothesis testing framework. We proceed by proposing two approaches to assessment of self-similarity. The first is based on patch-wise calculation of the mutual information, while the second measures the mutual information that exists across scales. Quantifying the extent of self-similarity by means of mutual information is of paramount importance in the analysis of natural stochastic textures that are encountered in medical imaging, geology, agriculture and in computer vision algorithms that are designed for application on fully-textures images.

2018: Manifold-Based Analysis of Natural Stochastic Textures with Application in Texture Synthesis
Abstract: Embedding textured images in manifolds reveals latent information regarding texture structure and allows useful analysis of these high dimensional images in a low dimensional space. We present a framework for analysis and synthesis of natural stochastic textures (NST) which constitute an important subset of textures that are modelled as realizations of random processes. The randomness of NST differentiates them from other types of images and requires a dedicated method for analysis and synthesis. We demonstrate several applications of this framework. The first is synthesis of new types of NST. The second is NST analysis, reaffirming our previous findings regarding the fundamental properties of NST, and showing that they emerge naturally in the latent parameter space. Finally, we show the advantage of producing a manifold representation with intrinsic geometry.

2018: Geometric approach to detecting volumetric changes in medical images
Abstract: None

2018: Analysis of Piecewise Fractional Brownian Motion Signals and Textures
Abstract: Piecewise Fractional Brownian motion (p-fBm) is a continuous non-stationary Gaussian process having stationary Gaussian increments, named piecewise fractional Gaussian noise (p-fGn). Unlike fractional Brownian motion (fBm) governed by a unique parameter (Hurst exponent), p-fBm is defined by three parameters: the Hurst exponent in low frequencies, the Hurst exponent in high frequencies and the threshold frequency, which separates the two regimes. In this paper, we present a synthesis method that generates a finite approximation of p-fBm series. Moreover, we analyze the synthesized p-fBm series and test the Gaussianity of both p-fBm and p-fGn. We test the stationarity of the first order increments (p-fGn) and explore an approach to estimation of the process Hurst parameters. Our contribution is relevant to modeling and analysis of certain textures that are characteristic of certain medical and other natural images.

2018: Geometry-based distortion measures for space deformation
Abstract: None

2018: Face anti-spoofing based on projective invariants
Abstract: The most common security authentication systems rely on automatic face recognition, which is particularly vulnerable to various spoofing attacks. Often these attacks include attempts to deceive a system by using a photo or video recording of a legitimate user. Recent approaches to this problem are based on pure machine learning techniques that require large training datasets and generalize or scale, poorly.By contrast, we present a geometric approach for detecting spoofing attacks in face recognition based authentication systems. By locating planar regions around racial landmarks, our method distinguishes between genuine user recordings and recordings of spoofed images such as printed photos and video replays.The proposed algorithm is based on projective invariant relationships that are independent of the camera parameters and lighting conditions. Unlike previous geometric approaches, the input to our system is a stream of two RGB cameras. Comparing with methods implemented by a single RGB camera, our approach is significantly more accurate and is completely automatic, since we do not require head movements and other user interactions. While, on the other hand, our method does not employ expensive devices, such as depth or thermal cameras, and it operates both in indoor and outdoor settings.

2018: Modelling local phase of images and textures with applications in phase denoising and phase retrieval
Abstract: The Fourier magnitude has been studied extensively, but less effort has been devoted to the Fourier phase, despite its well-established importance in image representation. Global phase was shown to be more important for image representation than the magnitude, whereas local phase, exhibited in Gabor filters, has been used for analysis purposes in detecting image contours and edges. Neither global nor local phase has been modelled in closed form, suitable for Bayesian estimation. 
In this work, we analyze the local phase of textured images and propose a local (Markovian) model for local phase coefficients. This model is Gaussian-mixture-based, learned from the graph representation of images, based on their complex wavelet decomposition. We demonstrate the applicability of the model in restoration of images with noisy local phase and in image retrieval, where we show superior performance to the well-known hybrid input-output (HIO) method. We also provide a framework for application of the model in a general setup of image processing.

2017: A Differential Geometry Approach for Change Detection in Medical Images
Abstract: Change detection is of paramount importance in medical imaging, serving as a non-invasive quantifiable powerful tool in diagnosis and in assessment of the outcome of treatment of tumors. We present a new quantitative method for detecting changes in volumetric medical data and in clustering of anatomical structures, based on assessment of volumetric distortions that are required in order to deform a test three-dimensional medical dataset segment onto its previously-acquired reference, or a given prototype in the case clustering. Unlike the voxel-based classical techniques of shape comparison, our algorithm operates on tetrahedral meshes and can, therefore be applied on both closed, simply-connected, surfaces and in volumetric domains with more sophisticated boundaries.

2016: Statistics of Natural Stochastic Textures and Their Application in Image Denoising
Abstract: Natural stochastic textures (NSTs), characterized by their fine details, are prone to corruption by artifacts, introduced during the image acquisition process by the combined effect of blur and noise. While many successful algorithms exist for image restoration and enhancement, the restoration of natural textures and textured images based on suitable statistical models has yet to be further improved. We examine the statistical properties of NST using three image databases. We show that the Gaussian distribution is suitable for many NST, while other natural textures can be properly represented by a model that separates the image into two layers; one of these layers contains the structural elements of smooth areas and edges, while the other contains the statistically Gaussian textural details. Based on these statistical properties, an algorithm for the denoising of natural images containing NST is proposed, using patch-based fractional Brownian motion model and regularization by means of anisotropic diffusion. It is illustrated that this algorithm successfully recovers both missing textural details and structural attributes that characterize natural images. The algorithm is compared with classical as well as the state-of-the-art denoising algorithms.

